BALTIMORE STATE HOSPITAL FOR THE CRIMINALLY INSANE - INT. HIGH SECURITY CELL BLOCK - NIGHT

He's sweating profusely. Cheek pressed to the cold cement floor, he has blood on his lips. Meet Dr. Abel Gideon, pale, handsome, 40’s, unresponsive.

A Hospital Security Guard observing Dr. Gideon through the bars of a heavy gauge maximum security cell door that separates them.

Hospital Security Guard: "This is your final opportunity to comply. On your feet, Dr. Gideon. Or we will restrain you."

No response from Dr. Gideon.

The Hospital Security Guard signals and a klaxon sounds. Seconds later, the cell door slide opens. KLANG! The Hospital Security and two of his comrades rush into the cell. The Three Hospital Security Guards surround the crumpled Dr. Gideon and aggressively bark orders at him.

Hospital Security Guard: "Turn over and lace your fingers behind your head."

Dr. Gideon, however, remains unresponsive. As Hospital Security #2 puts a knee to Gideon's back, the lead Hospital Security Guard kneels and checks for a pulse.

Hospital Security Guard: "Get a gurney."

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Two Hospital Security Guards escort Dr. Gideon’s gurney down a long cement passageway. He is lying on a gurney being wheeled down a long corridor, oxygen mask over his mouth and nose. His eyes loll and roll in a daze, ankles and wrists cuffed. Hanging lamps streak light in strobes across Gideon as he’s pushed under them.

As they push the gurney towards a set of infirmary doors. A loud entry buzzer sounds. The heavy gauge prison doors open.

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - INFIRMARY - MOMENTS LATER

Nurse Elizabeth Shell, 30's, cuts Dr. Gideon’s shirt open and begins to attach EKG tab electrodes to his bare chest.

His eyes pop open. They are clear and focused. His cuffed hand, fingers slowly reaching for a small but scabbed incision on his palm. His fingers dig into his flesh revealing the sharpened tine of a fork he had inserted beneath his skin. He quickly jams the tine into the cuffs keyhole and goes to work.

As Nurse Shell prepares the EKG, she’s unaware that Dr. Gideon slowly rises from the gurney behind her. She hears his heart monitor flatline then turns... and before she can even shout, Dr. Gideon descends on her, knocking her violently out of frame.

EXT. B.S.H.C.I. - MORNING

An F.B.I. Sedan approaches the grim Gothic pile of the asylum looming over the driveway. The F.B.I. sedan parks and out of it steps Jack Crawford and Will Graham.

Jack Crawford: "Freddie Lounds ran an unconfirmed story that the Chesapeake Ripper may already be in custody."

Will Graham: "Uncomfirmed? Am I confirming? Fact-checking for Freddie Lounds?"

Jack Crawford: "You’re fact-checking for me."

Will eyes the sign that reads “CRIMINALLY INSANE.”

Will Graham: "I’m always a little nervous going into one of these places. Afraid they’ll never let me out again."

Jack Crawford: "Don’t worry. I’m not going to leave you here."

Will Graham: "Not today."

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - DR. CHILTON’S OFFICE - MORNING

Dr. Frederick Chilton comes around his desk to shake Will Graham’s hand as Jack Crawford looks on.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Doctor Bloom just called me about you, Mister Graham. Or should I call you Doctor Graham?"

Will Graham: "I’m not a doctor."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "You’re not F.B.I. either. That’s a temporary identification."

Jack Crawford: "Mr. Graham teaches at the academy."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "A teacher. I was relieved to hear from Doctor Bloom, we’ve known each other for years. Take that chair."

Jack Crawford: "Doctor Chilton, we need to see the crime scene while it’s still relatively undisturbed."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "For something so disturbing, I assure you it’s undisturbed. Medical personnel made sure Nurse Shell wasn’t alive and came right back out. The infirmary has been sealed off until you get there."

Will Graham: "Why was a nurse left alone with a prisoner in a high-security psychiatric hospital?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "For the two years since he was brought here, Gideon behaved perfectly and gave every appearance of cooperating with attempts at therapy. As dictated by our present administrator, security around him was slightly relaxed."

Jack Crawford: "Your present administrator?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I imagine after an incident like this one, she won’t be holding that position much longer. I can’t help feeling responsible myself for what happened. I had sessions with Gideon for years. He sat directly across from me and I had no idea what he was hiding. And now one of our staff is dead."

That strikes a chord with Jack Crawford, who can relate.

Jack Crawford: "Graham needs to see the crime scene in as much privacy as possible."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Dr. Bloom assured me that you would cooperate on procedure."

Will Graham: "I will, but I need to be alone."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Ah, yes. That thing you do. You are quite the topic of conversation in psychiatric circles."

Will Graham: "Am I?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "A unique cocktail of personality disorders and neuroses that makes you a highly skilled profiler."

Jack Crawford: "Graham isn’t here to be analyzed."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Perhaps he should be. We’re woefully short of material on your sort of thing, Mr. Graham. Would you mind talking with some of the staff -- no, no, not this trip. Dr. Bloom was very severe with me on that point. We’re to leave you alone. Maybe a special visit?"

Will Graham: "Thank you, Doctor Chilton. I’d like to see the crime scene now."

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - CORRIDOR - DAY

Chilton leads Jack Crawford and Will Graham down the hall.

Jack Crawford: "Gideon was restrained?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Handcuffs. Concealed a fork tine under the flesh of his palm and used it to pick the lock."

Will Graham: "Where is he now?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "In his cell. You’ll note the removal of organs and abdominal mutilations are all consistent with the Chesapeake Ripper. As is the distinctive brutalization of the corpse."

Jack Crawford: "Chesapeake Ripper’s still at large."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "What I’m about to show you, I believe suggests otherwise."

Jack Crawford: "Dr. Chilton consulted on the case when we failed to catch the Ripper after his last series of murders."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Next to a battle lost, the saddest thing is a battle won."

Jack Crawford: "Meaning?"

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - INFIRMARY - DAY

Jack Crawford and Will Graham follow Dr. Chilton into the room. Jack and Will slow their approach, taking in the horror of what is waiting for them here.

She’s impaled on the broken frames of several privacy curtains that have been fashioned into spears. They protrude from wounds over the entire canvas of her body. Additional shards of wood and metal prop her organs above her corpse, giving them the appearance of floating outside her body.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "The reason you failed and kept failing to catch the Chesapeake Ripper is I already had him."

Jack Crawford shoots Chilton a look and then glances away as Will takes in the horrible tableaux.

He is lying on a gurney being wheeled down a long corridor, oxygen mask over his mouth and nose. His eyes loll and roll in a daze. Overhead hanging lamps streak light in lazy strobes across Will as he’s pushed under them.

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - INFIRMARY - NIGHT

Nurse Shell cuts Will's shirt from his chest and attaches EKG tab electrodes. As she turns away, Will's eyes open.

His fingers find the sharpened tine beneath his skin.

She hears the heart monitor flatline and turns. Will Graham knocks her out of frame, striking her in the throat with the palm of his hand before she can scream. The blow is startling and significant in its brutality. It crushes her throat, blocking her airway, and reducing her scream to a painful gurgling.

She stumbles back against a medicine cabinet. Eyes wide with fear and pain. But we only see them briefly before Will forces his thumbs into her eye sockets. As her body slumps to the floor, Will stares at the blood on his hands.

Out of the corner of his eye, Will spies Nurse Shell crawling blindly toward the door. Moving to a privacy curtain, Will strips the fabric from the frame and breaks it over his knee to fashion a spear.

Crawling. Her hands reach out and find Will's shoes blocking her way. Will with the broken frame of the privacy curtain raised above his head. Will drives the spear violently down.

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - INFIRMARY - DAY - PRESENT

He stands in the horror of the crime scene, trying to shake the ugliness of what his imagination evoked. Jack enters in the background giving Will a moment to let it wash away.

Will Graham: "As far as we know, the Chesapeake Ripper hasn’t killed in over two years. When was Gideon admitted?"

Jack Crawford: "Almost two years ago."

Jack is flooded with memories.

INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORD’S OFFICE - DAY - TWO YEARS EARLIER

Through the glass door, Jack Crawford, sitting behind his desk speaking on his phone, can see Miriam Lass. She’s late 20s, striking, pretty, wearing an FBI Trainee polo and khakis. She looks in curiously.

Jack abruptly hangs up, waving Miriam Lass into his office.

Jack Crawford: "Lass. Miriam. Come in."

Miriam does as instructed, approaching Jack’s desk. He motions toward the chair in front of him.

Miriam Lass: "Morning, Agent Crawford."

She does as instructed.

Jack Crawford: "Sorry to pull you out of class. There’s nothing wrong. I don’t want to make you nervous."

Miriam Lass: "I’m not nervous. Curious."

Jack Crawford: "Your instructors tell me you’re in the top ten percent."

Miriam Lass: "Top five, sir."

Jack Crawford: "You’ll have to stop correcting me if we’re going to get along. You wrote me a letter when you qualified for the academy."

Miriam Lass: "I wasn’t sure you got it. You never replied."

Jack Crawford: "I never do. Odds are against any trainee sticking with the program. Glad to see you’re still here. Sure I come off as a two-faced recruiting sergeant sonofabitch."

Miriam blinks. That’s exactly what she was thinking.

Jack Crawford: "You said in your letter you wanted to work for me in the Violent Criminal Apprehension Program."

Miriam Lass: "Yes, sir."

Jack Crawford: "There may be an opportunity. I assume you’re familiar with the Chesapeake Ripper?"

Miriam Lass: "Yes."

Jack Crawford: "The Ripper is very hot right now. Did his last two victims in six days. There will be at least one more body, then nothing for months."

Miriam Lass: "They say he’s a true sociopath."

Jack Crawford: "What do you say?"

Miriam Lass: "I say they don’t know what else to label him. He has some of the characteristics of what they call a sociopath. No remorse or guilt at all. He won’t have any of the other marks, he won’t be a drifter. He’ll have no history of trouble with the law. He’ll be hard to catch."

Jack is impressed. He made the right call singling her out.

Jack Crawford: "I want to assign you to the Chesapeake Ripper task force. You’ll work directly under me."

Miriam Lass: "I’m grateful for the opportunity, Agent Crawford, but I can’t help wondering... why me?"

Jack Crawford: "You have a forensic fellowship, six years law enforcement. You have a doctorate in criminology, you have a degree in psychology. And what I don’t have is enough warm bodies. Now I want your full attention."

Miriam Lass: "Yes, sir."

Miriam’s curiosity is piqued at a new career opportunity.

Jack Crawford: "I’ve been doing this a long time and I’ve never seen one like this. This kind of psychopath is rare."

BALTIMORE STATE HOSPITAL FOR THE CRIMINALLY INSANE - EXT. B.S.H.C.I. - DAY

Time-lapse.

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - DR. CHILTON’S OFFICE - DAY

Alana Bloom and Will Graham sit opposite Dr. Chilton, across his massive desk serving as a moat. Although the pleasant conversation takes place primarily between Alana and Dr. Chilton, Dr. Chilton is clearly curious about Will Graham.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Volume of Abel Gideon’s mail is a nuisance. Sometimes I feel like his secretary rather than his keeper."

Alana Bloom: "Any specific correspondences that stood out from the others?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Most were researchers and PhD candidates requesting interviews. A gaggle of angry relatives or those sympathetic to them. Then scattered dozens of lonely hearts seeking his hand in marriage."

Alana Bloom: "He butchered his last wife and her family on Thanksgiving."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "There’s no accounting for taste or intelligence, is there?"

Will Graham: "Murdering his wife was impulsive. The Chesapeake Ripper is always methodical, meticulous. Which is why he’s so hard to catch."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Was. So hard to catch. Will you be conducting a joint interview?"

Alana Bloom: "Separate. Compare and contrast."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I know you’re anxious to get on with it. You’ve talked to Gideon before. For some length of time."

Alana Bloom: "I saw him mainly in court. Wrote an article about him for the Journal of Criminal Psychology."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "He’s very familiar with you. He’s given you a lot of thought."

Will Graham: "You had some sessions with him?"

Alana Bloom: "Yes. Two. Couple years ago. When he was first institutionalized."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I’ve read your notes, of course. They were more or less helpful as I conducted my own interviews with Dr. Gideon over the years."

Alana Bloom: "I’m glad I was helpful."

Will Graham: "More or less."

Alana Bloom: "I’ll go first."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "It’ll give us a chance to chat."

Will Graham: "I’ll wait outside. I need some air."

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - HIGH SECURITY CELL BLOCK - DAY

The steel door of the maximum security section closed behind Alana Bloom. She hears the bolt slide home.

Her footsteps echo. High to her right, surveillance cameras. On her left, cells. Some are padded, with narrow observation slits, others are normal, barred. Shadowy occupants inside.

Alana approaches. A simple folding chair is positioned in front. Behind its barred front wall is a second barrier of stout nylon net. Sparse, bolted-down furniture inside.

Dr. Gideon (banal, 50s) is sitting on his bunk, in white pajamas. He politely sits upright to greet Alana.

Alana Bloom: "Dr. Gideon. I don’t know if you --"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Lovely to see you again, Dr. Bloom."

Alana Bloom: "You remembered."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I’ve had a lot of psychiatrists visit me over the years. Hard not to forget one so attractive."

Alana Bloom: "Thanks for your time, Dr. Gideon. I won’t waste it. Shall we begin?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "What’s this to be? I was caught red-handed. Literally. No mystery as to who done it. I did."

Will Graham: "The mystery is whether you are who you say you are. Or not."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I never liked being called the Chesapeake Ripper. Maybe something a little more distinct. Any Ripper is going to pale in comparison to the infamous Jack of Whitechapel."

Will Graham: "Is that why you didn’t take credit for the Ripper murders before now?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I was just enjoying the goose chase from the box seats."

Will Graham: "Two years of goose-chasing. You must be a very patient man."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Are you going to walk me through the Psychopathy Checklist? I’ve had my personality inventoried by the Minnesota Multiphasic."

Will Graham: "Would you prefer a Rorschach test?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "If you show me those pictures, might I suggest you put a blood pressure cuff on my genitals. Far more accurate gauge to my response."

Alana Bloom: "Were you aroused by murdering the Night Nurse? Did you fantasize about killing her before you did?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Sexually or preparatively?"

Alana Bloom: "Either."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Yes. To both. Are you going to ask me if I’m aroused right now."

Alana Bloom: "It would be inconsequential to this line of questioning, Dr. Gideon. Were you sexually aroused when you murdered your wife?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "She stopped having that effect on me long before I killed her."

Will Graham: "What effect were you hoping to have by killing Elizabeth Shell?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "That the nurse’s name? The effect I was hoping for was her death. Elevated to my art."

Will Graham: "You ate a tube of rheumatoid arthritis ointment for your art."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Had to look ill. The capsaicin in the salve irritated my stomach lining so I would sweat profusely."

Will Graham: "Brutalization of the body was done posthumously. The Chesapeake Ripper usually does that sort of thing during, not after."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I don’t need to convince you I’m the Chesapeake Ripper."

Will Graham: "Seems that’s what you need to do. It’s certainly what someone needs."

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND - EXT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Time-lapse establishing.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter opens the door, leaving for the night, shrugging on his coat, shutting off the last of his lights to his darkened office, very much surprised to see Jack Crawford.

He sits quietly in the waiting room.

Hannibal Lecter: "Agent Crawford. Do you have an appointment?"

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Hannibal ushers in Jack Crawford, turning on a few lights to illuminate his work space and make it more hospitable.

Hannibal Lecter: "May I take your coat?"

Jack Crawford: "I’m not staying. I was just..."

Hannibal Lecter: "In the neighborhood?"

Jack Crawford: "Something like that."

Hannibal studies, then:

Hannibal Lecter: "How’s Mrs. Crawford?"

Jack Crawford: "That’s why I’m in the neighborhood. She tells me she’s fine. And she’ll tell me when she’s not."

Hannibal Lecter: "You expect me to tell you more."

Jack Crawford: "Bella’s at a NATO summit, so I can’t talk to her. And I couldn’t talk to her even if she were here."

Hannibal Lecter: "About her condition?"

Jack Crawford: "About her cancer. About her dying. She doesn’t want to talk about it."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m prohibited from talking about it. Doctor patient confidentiality."

Jack Crawford: "You talk to me about Will Graham."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will Graham isn’t officially my patient. We have conversations."

Jack Crawford: "What do you consider this?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Desperate coping."

Jack Crawford: "You don’t think I have a right to know what’s happening with my wife?"

Hannibal Lecter: "You have every right to know what’s happening. But not from me."

Jack Crawford: "I’m not going to stand outside my marriage and watch this happen. If that’s what she wants, too bad. She married the wrong guy."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’ll offer this one insight: she thinks she married the right guy."

A salve. Hannibal gestures for Jack to sit down.

Jack Crawford: "I look at her side of the bed and wonder if she’s going to die there or where she’ll die and I feel myself going uncomfortably numb."

Hannibal Lecter: "You’re not going numb. You’re dreading the loss of numbness."

Jack Crawford: "I’m dreading the loss of my wife... and thinking about other losses."

Hannibal Lecter: "What other losses are you dreading? You can’t save your wife. She won’t let you. Her cancer won’t let you. Who else couldn’t you save, Jack?"

The question hits Jack harder than he expected.

Jack Crawford: "I’m not your patient, Dr. Lecter. I’ll keep my losses to myself."

All sound is dulled as if her ears were blocked, the ambient noise of her circulatory system provides an organic hum. She stares numbly, rattled at something horrible off-screen. A horribly murdered man. His body has been laced to a work table in front of a peg board where tools hang. Each of the tools from the board are now impaling the dead man all over his body.

INT. WORKSHOP - DAY - TWO YEARS EARLIER

Miriam Lass studies the corpse of the murdered man as camera reveals Jack Crawford.

Miriam Lass: "Where is everyone?"

Jack Crawford: "Just you and me for the time being. When heavily manned investigations have little to feed on, they tend to turn in on themselves, covering the same ground over and over, beating it flat. They take on the circular shape of a hurricane."

Miriam Lass: "We’re chasing the storm?"

Jack Crawford: "The storm is chasing us. Have a look around. Tell me what you see."

Miriam steps toward the wounded man on the peg board.

Miriam Lass: "He did it all here. Did it while he was alive. He struck his throat so he couldn’t call for help."

Jack Crawford: "You think he was unconscious when the Ripper did the ripping?"

Miriam Lass: "No. He’d want him awake. Organs were removed. Not all of them. He was choosy. He took the liver, thymus but left the heart."

Jack looks over the body, purposefully not looking at Miriam.

Jack Crawford: "What is he doing with the organs?"

Miriam Lass: "Surgical trophies. He’s hiding that he takes them, distracting us with what he does to the body. Wants us to think it’s an afterthought. He’s a medical doctor, isn’t he? That why you call him the Ripper?"

Jack Crawford: "Why do you say that?"

Miriam Lass: "Psychopaths are attracted to surgical fields. They offer power. Require an ability to make objective clinical decisions without feeling."

Jack Crawford: "White male? 40s? 50s?"

Miriam Lass: "Don’t know if he’s white. He’s exotic somehow. Which is why you’re going to catch him."

Jack Crawford: "I’m going to catch him?"

Miriam Lass: "We call you the guru. You have a peculiar cleverness."

Jack Crawford: "I’ll take that as a compliment."

Miriam Lass: "You should. Your color sense, the textures of your clothes. Even by FBI standards of agent dress codes, you have an odd vibrancy about you."

Jack allows himself a small smile, his back turned to Miriam so there’s no concern of breaking character.

Miriam Lass: "So does the Ripper. You’ll probably spot him before anybody else."

Jack Crawford: "Or you will."

Jack’s small smile quickly fades.

Jack Crawford: "Now I want you to look at this."

A picture of the B.S.H.C.I. crime scene. Nurse Shell’s body is impaled on the broken frames of several privacy curtains and infirmary equipment that have been fashioned into spears. They protrude from wounds all over her body, not unlike the wound man in the workshop.

F.B.I. HEADQUARTERS, QUANTICO, VIRGINIA - INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY

Jack Crawford stares absently at Nurse Shell’s corpse, unaware that Will Graham is studying him more closely than the dead body. Brian Zeller, Beverly Katz, Jimmy Price hover more closely over the body in lab coats and rubber gloves.

Jimmy Price: "Nothing ever came up connecting the Chesapeake Ripper and Dr. Gideon on the Latent Descriptor Index."

Beverly Katz: "There’s no detectable consistency with the Ripper victims. He doesn’t hunt exclusively within his own ethnic group. He’s killed all creeds, colors, men and women."

Brian Zeller: "She has the exact same wound patterns as the last known victim of the Chesapeake Ripper. Exact."

Jack Crawford: "We didn’t find a body for his last known victim."

Brian Zeller: "Then the victim before that."

Will Graham: "I see the Ripper but I don’t... feel the Ripper. He’s an artist. This is... plagiarism."

Jack Crawford: "We never made the wound patterns on any of the Ripper victims public."

Will Graham: "Maybe he is the Ripper, I don’t know. But if he is a plagiarist, the real Chesapeake Ripper is going to make sure everybody knows it."

INT. JACK CRAWFORD’S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jack Crawford sleeping alone. His falling breaths the only sound in the room.

2:47 AM. A moment of stillness, then: RING. RING. Jack startles awake.

Jack Crawford: "Bella."

The empty side of the bed where Jack’s wife Bella normally sleeps. Jack stirs, reaches across Bella’s still-fluffed pillow and picks up the phone.

Jack Crawford: "Hello?"

An eerily long pause, then out of a brief shift of static:

Miriam Lass’s Voice: "Jack... Jack..."

Jack Crawford: "Who is this?"

Miriam Lass’s Voice: "Jack... it’s Miriam."

Jack Crawford: "Miriam?"

Miriam Lass’s Voice: "I don’t know where I am. I can’t see anything. I was so wrong. I was so wrong. Please... Jack... I don’t want to die like this."

CLICK. The line goes dead.

INT. B.A.U. - FORENSIC DATA - MORNING - DAY

Beverly Katz stands at her work station studying the data on her computer monitor, Jimmy Price looking over her shoulder. Brian Zeller sits on a stool. Jack Crawford stands in the middle of the room and Will Graham hovers near the door.

Beverly Katz: "I’m hooked into every carrier database and telephone provider in the United States. Nothing."

Jack Crawford: "Look again."

Beverly Katz: "I did my agains. And my again and agains. I can’t find any electronic trace of any call made to your home phone at 2:47 AM."

Jack Crawford: "The phone rang."

Brian Zeller: "Did it wake up your wife?"

Jack Crawford: "I was alone."

Jimmy Price: "If there was a call --"

Jack Crawford: "What do you mean “if?”"

Jimmy Price: "Whoever called could have tapped in from that little box outside your house. Or the junction in your neighborhood. There would be no trace signal to track."

Beverly Katz: "You’re sure it was Miriam Lass?"

Jack Crawford: "It was Miriam Lass."

Brian Zeller: "Haven’t heard her voice in 2 years."

Jack Crawford: "If you continue to question my certainty I need to know so I can tell you to leave the room while it’s still safe for you to be here."

And that shuts Brian Zeller up.

Jack Crawford: "Chesapeake Ripper recorded Miriam Lass as he was killing her 2 years ago. He called me last night at 2:47 AM and played that recording."

Will Graham: "That call didn’t come from the Baltimore State Hospital for the Criminally Insane."

Beverly Katz: "That we would’a been able to trace."

Will Graham: "What if it wasn’t a recording? You said yourself there was no body."

Jack Crawford: "Miriam Lass is dead. Chesapeake Ripper is making it very clear someone is plagiarizing his work."

Brian Zeller: "I’ll say it once more, just to say it. It was 2:47 in the morning. If you get roused from deep sleep, you’re going to be disoriented. May not even know you’re asleep."

Jack Crawford: "I know when I’m awake."

Will reacts to that, not always sure he knows the same.

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL - DAY

Will Graham gathers his notes and sits behind his desk as F.B.I. trainees file out of the classroom. He takes off his glasses and rubs his tired eyes, finally glancing up to see the entrance corridor.

The light at the end of the tunnel becomes obscured. A haunting clackcluck-clackcluck-clackcluck.

Will stares down the entrance corridor to the classroom as the black stag stalks toward him, head low in its approach.

Alana Bloom's Voice: "Will...?"

He startles awake every so slightly, lost in a day dream. The black stag of his waking nightmare was in fact an approaching Alana Bloom and Jack Crawford.

Alana Bloom: "You looked like you were dreaming."

Will Graham: "Was thinking about something else."

Jack Crawford: "I got something for you to think about. We have a medium where we can speak to the Chesapeake Ripper. Is there a way to push him?"

Will Graham: "Push him toward what?"

Alana Bloom: "We might be able to influence him to blow up and become visible."

Jack Crawford: "Could we enrage him?"

Will Graham: "To what purpose, Jack? I’m not sure what you’re asking for."

Jack Crawford: "Advice. That’s what I’m asking for. Could we enrage the Chesapeake Ripper and focus his attention?"

Will Graham: "He’s already focused on Gideon as his adversary. Don’t fool around."

Jack Crawford: "Gideon’s just a tabloid rumor. We need to make him the truth."

Will Graham: "You might push the Ripper to kill again just to prove he isn’t in a hospital for the criminally insane."

Jack Crawford: "I have to push, Will."

Will Graham: "Are you thinking about playing ball with Freddie Lounds?"

Jack Crawford: "You know yourself it’s the best way to bait the real Chesapeake Ripper."

Freddie Lounds sits quietly, eyes following the shape of the room, casually scanning her surroundings.

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Jack Crawford enters, warm and welcoming. He’s playing an angle and Freddie Lounds happily plays along. Alana Bloom and Will Graham enter with Jack. Everyone sits at the table.

Freddie Lounds: "Good morning, Agent Crawford. Thank you for inviting me."

Jack Crawford: "This is Dr. Bloom, one of our psychiatric consultants. And I believe you know Will Graham."

Freddie Lounds: "Dr. Bloom. Hello, Mr. Graham. So good to see you."

Will simply stares, inscrutable. Jack addresses Freddie:

Jack Crawford: "You got all the qualities of a good reporter, Ms. Lounds. Intelligence, guts, and the good eye. How did you end up where you ended up?"

Freddie Lounds: "Where I ended up being criminal justice journalism?"

Will Graham: "Criminal justice journalism being a euphemism for tabloid reporting."

Jack Crawford: "You ran an unconfirmed story on the Chesapeake Ripper. What I want is for you to confirm it."

Freddie Lounds: "An exclusive story would be a coup."

Jack Crawford: "You would have the satisfaction of seeing Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times, the sanctified Washington Post and the holy New York Times run copyrighted material under your byline with a picture credit."

Will Graham: "What’s against you and by association us is your brand of journalism is obnoxious, and therefore disliked."

Freddie Lounds: "Yes, that is an obstacle. I tried to get an interview with Dr. Gideon. I was denied. Evidently some trouble with my euphemism."

Alana Bloom: "I’m friendly with the new Chief of Staff. I can get you an interview."

Freddie Lounds: "Not to snap bubblegum and crack wise, but what’s my angle? Is he the Chesapeake Ripper or you just want me to tell everybody he is."

Alana Bloom: "He could be. Certain personalities are attracted to certain professions."

Jack Crawford: "Do you know which professions psychopaths disproportionately gravitate to?"

Freddie Lounds: "CEOs, lawyers. The clergy."

Jack Crawford: "Number 5 on the list is surgeons."

Freddie Lounds: "I know that list."

Will Graham: "Then you know what number six is."

Freddie Lounds: "Journalists. Know what number seven is, Mr. Graham?"

Will Graham: "Law enforcement."

Freddie Lounds: "Here we are. A bunch of psychopaths helping each other out."

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - HIGH SECURITY CELL BLOCK - DAY

Freddie Lounds steps through the Security Gate and it slides shut ominously behind her. She doesn’t flinch, instead walking confidently down the corridor.

She approaches Gideon’s cell to find him waiting for her. Freddie sits in the chair opposite the security barrier.

Freddie Lounds: "Dr. Gideon. I’m Freddie Lounds. May I call you Dr. Gideon or would you prefer the Chesapeake Ripper?"

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal at this desk, Tattlecrime.com on his browser pronouncing “HOW THE RIPPER RIPS: AN EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW” over a picture of Dr. Gideon. He shakes his head making a disapproving tsk-tsk-tsk sound.

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Dr. Chilton, Alana Bloom and Hannibal sit around his table.

Hannibal Lecter: "Inspired by Auguste Escoffier, Langue d’agneau en Papillotte served with a sauce of duxelle and oyster mushrooms, picked myself."

Alana Bloom: "Don’t think I’ve ever had tongue."

Hannibal Lecter: "It was a particularly chatty lamb."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Romans would kill flamingos just to eat their tongues."

Hannibal Lecter: "Don’t give me ideas. Your tongue is very feisty and as this evening has already proven, it’s nice to have an old friend for dinner."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal, Alana Bloom and Dr. Chilton are gathered around the beautifully appointed dining table.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "To the Chesapeake Ripper. Dr. Gideon is going to provide us with the singular opportunity to analyze a pure sociopath. It’s so rare to find one in captivity."

Hannibal raises his glass, but Alana does not.

Alana Bloom: "I see three possibilities: Gideon is the Chesapeake Ripper or he just thinks he is, or he knows he isn’t."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "He is. He knows he is. So do I. But it will be a challenge to tell what he’s holding back or whether he understands more than he’ll say."

Hannibal Lecter: "Did you discuss the Chesapeake Ripper’s crimes with Dr. Gideon before he murdered the night nurse?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "When I began to suspect who he was. Feeling he was about to be exposed may have spurred him to action."

Alana Bloom: "Is it possible you inadvertently planted the suggestion in Gideon’s mind that he was the Ripper?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Not suggesting coercive persuasion?"

Alana Bloom: "I said inadvertently."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Psychic driving is unethical."

Hannibal Lecter: "But reasonable in certain circumstances."

Alana Bloom: "What circumstances?"

Hannibal Lecter: "It may’ve been useful trying to remind Gideon he’s the Chesapeake Ripper if he repressed those memories, but he seems to have come to that awareness all by himself."

Alana and Dr. Chilton simultaneously look at Hannibal.

Alana Bloom: "Would you mind if I had another session with Dr. Gideon?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Not at all. I’d love your insight. And if he’s been unethically manipulated somehow I need to know."

Hannibal Lecter: "Dr. Chilton... would you care to assist me with dessert?"

A norton grape. Its purple skin is removed revealing purple flesh.

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Hannibal peels grapes to garnish a gelatin dish.

Hannibal Lecter: "I love Norton grapes. Same color inside as outside. Peel it and the flesh is also purple, not like other grapes where flesh is white and color comes from the skin."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "A grape with nothing to hide."

Hannibal lowers his voice conspiratorially:

Hannibal Lecter: "Were I in your position, I would have attempted psychic driving. Based on your familiarity with the subject, perhaps you already have."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "How dare you."

Hannibal Lecter: "I dare in many varied ways, but I promise... I’m much more forgiving of the unorthodox than Dr. Bloom."

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - HIGH SECURITY CELL BLOCK - DAY

Jack Crawford sits opposite Dr. Gideon.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Are you enjoying reading my mail?"

Jack Crawford: "Not personally. I’ll be getting the abbreviated version."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Looking for something instructional? Diagrams. Don’t think I could recreate one of my own murders from memory?"

Jack Crawford: "Wouldn’t be your memory you’d be recreating it from. You’re not the Chesapeake Ripper."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "We’ll have to agree to disagree."

Jack Crawford: "Alright, why the surgical trophies?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Well, Agent Crawford, there’re just things you’re not allowed to do in a state certified operating room."

Jack Crawford: "No trophies from killing your wife and her family at Thanksgiving. You didn’t put them on display."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Crimes of passion. You know how stressful the holidays can get. But you’re not here to talk about my wife or even the night nurse."

Jack Crawford: "What am I here to talk about?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Your trainee. Miriam something."

Jack Crawford: "Telling me you killed Miriam Lass?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I didn’t want to kill her. But yes, I did. Don’t be mad at me."

Jack Crawford: "I’m not mad at you. I know where you are and how you got here. Not expecting dignified conduct, or even the truth, for that matter. Which you’re being awfully forthcoming about all of a sudden."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "What do I have to lose? You know where I am and how I got here."

Jack Crawford: "Why didn’t you put her on display?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "What makes you think I didn’t? Shouldn’t be so literal about what you consider a display."

RING. RING. Jack Crawford’s phone sounds from his pocket.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Who could that be."

Jack looks at his caller ID, which simply reads “HOME.”

Jack Crawford: "Excuse me."

As Jack is walking away:

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Polite thing to do is tell them you’ll call them back. Unless, of course, that’s not an option."

Jack eyes Dr. Gideon, then exits.

EXT. B.S.H.C.I. - DAY

Jack steps outside, taking his phone and re-dialing HOME. He listens as it rings once, twice then picks up:

Jack Crawford: "Sorry I couldn’t pick up. You’re home early. Everything alright?"

An eerie moment of room tone, then a recorded voice:

Miriam Lass’ Voice: "Please... Jack... I don’t want to die like this."

INT. JACK CRAWFORD’S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Brian Zeller photographs a footprint in the carpet as Beverly Katz scans the depression in the bed linens with a UV light. Jimmy Price is taking forensic trace off the bedside phone. He diligently dusts for prints on the handset, capturing them with a strip of transparent tape. Jack and Will look on.

Jimmy Price: "Getting a lot of usable prints. Probably just you and your wife’s."

Brian Zeller: "I can’t imagine the Chesapeake Ripper would start leaving prints at a crime scene now."

Jimmy places the newly imprinted tape strips on his handset, scanning them into the device.

Jimmy Price: "I can see three distinct beauties. Yours, your wife’s and presumably the Chesapeake Ripper."

Jack Crawford: "He was in my home. He was in my bedroom. He sat where my wife sleeps. He touched her pillow."

Will Graham: "Did Miriam Lass know where you live?"

Jack Crawford: "If she wanted to know, she was smart enough to find out."

Will Graham: "Could’ve told the Chesapeake Ripper before he killed her. Did you know you were sending her after him?"

Jack Crawford: "I sent her after information."

Will Graham: "Whoever made that phone call thinks you were close to Miriam Lass and feel responsible for her death."

Jack Crawford: "She was my trainee. I am responsible for her death."

Beverly Katz: "The Ripper didn’t just touch her pillow. He put his head on it. Somebody’s been sleeping in your bed."

Beverly plucks a long blonde hair from the indentation in the pillow lying on Bella Crawford’s side of the bed.

Beverly Katz: "And there he is. Or she is. Was Miriam Lass a blonde?"

Jack Crawford: "Yes."

Jimmy Price: "She was here."

Jack Crawford: "She’s dead."

Jimmy Price: "I pulled her fingerprints from the VICAP database, Jack. Got a match."

INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORD’S OFFICE - FLASHBACK

Jack stands behind his desk studying a report as camera reveals Miriam Lass standing in his doorway. He turns to her.

Jack Crawford: "You’re still in school, aren’t you?"

Miriam Lass: "Yes, sir. Thought this might be more important than “Exclusionary Rules of Search and Seizure.”"

Jack Crawford: "Is that what you thought?"

An internal wince at her cocky misstep. She tries to correct.

Miriam Lass: "I left a report here for you last night. I don’t know if you got it."

Jack Crawford: "I got it."

Miriam Lass: "Did you read it?"

Jack Crawford: "Go back to class."

Miriam stands there a moment, unable to draw her jaw shut.

Jack Crawford: "Frustrated, Lass? Better start forming a callus or frustration is going to wear you through."

Miriam Lass: "Could’ve at least read the report."

Jack Crawford: "I read it."

Miriam Lass: "Your assessment? Sir."

Jack Crawford: "My assessment is instead of being here you should be sitting in a lecture hall boning up on “Good Faith Warrant Exceptions.”"

Miriam Lass: "Did something change?"

Jack Crawford: "Some days you wake up changed. Hope you’re having one of those days."

Wounded and confused, she turns and starts to walk away.

Jack Crawford: "What you’re proposing in your report breaks confidentiality laws. You shouldn’t be so dismissive about what you’re learning here."

Miriam Lass: "If the Chesapeake Ripper is a surgeon, we should look at medical records of all the known victims. I know we wouldn’t get a warrant without something substantial --"

Jack Crawford: "It’s one thing for a trainee to go poking around private medical records without a warrant, very much another if “The Guru” did it."

That stops Miriam. She’s getting it.

Miriam Lass: "Better for a Trainee to ask for forgiveness than an FBI agent to ask for permission?"

Jack Crawford: "In my experience."

Miriam Lass: "Then I hope you forgive me for skipping class today."

Bolstered, Miriam exits and a genuine smile creeps across Jack Crawford’s face.

Alana Bloom’s Voice: "If someone were using manipulative methods, psychological or otherwise..."

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - HIGH SECURITY CELL BLOCK - DAY

Alana Bloom sits outside of Dr. Gideon’s cell as he sits inside, watching her closely as he listens.

Alana Bloom: "...to subvert your sense of control, you may not realize it unless those methods are pointed out to you."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Which might in fact be a manipulative method of itself."

Alana Bloom: "You were a model patient. You behaved yourself for two years."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "No opportunity to misbehave."

Alana Bloom: "You could have been pushed."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Unethically?"

Alana Bloom: "I can help you find out. But I need your trust to do that."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I trust you, Dr. Bloom."

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - DR. CHILTON’S OFFICE - DAY

Will Graham sits with Chilton in the seating area, casually.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "We both know you’re a distraction. I would have given Dr. Bloom her privacy, but I appreciate the opportunity to get to know you."

Will Graham: "What they say about me in psychiatric circles?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Too many mirror neurons. Supposed to help us socialize and go away, but you must have held onto yours, which makes socializing difficult."

Will Graham: "It’s a mild form of echopraxia."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Yes, I know. During intense conversations, do you take on the other person’s speech patterns?"

Will Graham: "Not that I’m aware of."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Watch out if you do."

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - HIGH SECURITY CELL BLOCK - DAY

Alana on one side of the barrier, Dr. Gideon on the other.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I can honestly say I appreciate your concern, Dr. Bloom. But I don’t think you can help me."

A deep groan, as if the entire building sighed. Then the red lights on the doors go green. Alana watches as one by one, they open.

Dr. Gideon stares at Alana Bloom through the crack in the now-ajar cell door. Then darkness. In the time it takes Alana to steal a breath, the orange emergency lights flash on, illuminating patients as they emerge from their cells. Alana glances over to see Dr. Gideon. He’s already out.

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - DR. CHILTON’S OFFICE - DAY

Dr. Chilton and Will Graham react to the familiar deep groan. Then the power goes out. Stark emergency lighting flashes on.

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

A flurry of movement amongst staff silhouetted by emergency lighting. Will emerges from Dr. Chilton’s office to find a group of Hospital Security hurrying down the dark corridor. Dr. Chilton steps into the hall and watches a moment as Will heads down the corridor, then goes back into his office. As if he has some idea how events may play out.

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - HIGH SECURITY CELL BLOCK

Will is immediately on the heels of the Hospital Security, who secure the first two cells, before stopping at the last.

Various Hospital Security: "Get away from her. Step away now."

Will follows Hospital Security toward the last cell. They surround the door, opening it.

Various Hospital Security: "Turn around and lace your fingers behind your head."

Alana Bloom is standing calmly in Gideon’s cell, unharmed. The Doctor himself is backing away from Alana, lacing his fingers behind his head, as instructed. As the Hospital Security take down Dr. Gideon, Alana walks out of the cell toward Will, explaining:

Alana Bloom: "Pulled me into his cell to protect me from the other patients. Would the real Chesapeake Ripper do that?"

Will Graham: "Come to think of it, he might."

Both Alana and Will notice Dr. Chilton entering the ward.

Will Graham: "What happened?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "We had a power outage. Entire hospital. No one knows what caused it. We’re on backup generators. Is everyone alright?"

Dr. Chilton steals a glance at Dr. Gideon’s cell as he is hauled to his feet and away from the barrier.

Alana Bloom: "I’m fine."

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - HALLWAY - DAY

Jack Crawford moving through the hall when his phone rings from his breast pocket. He takes it out and considers it a moment as it continues to ring. He finally accepts the call and puts the phone to his ear and closes his eyes, bracing for the inevitable.

EXT. ABANDONED OBSERVATORY - DAY

Beverly Katz and Will Graham as they approach the abandoned building; Jack Crawford hangs back considering what they may find. Various FBI Agents in the background.

Beverly Katz: "The last call was made to Jack’s cell from a disposable phone traced here. Or within a 100 feet of here."

Will Graham: "What was Miriam Lass looking into?"

Beverly Katz: "Medical records. If the Ripper was a surgeon, she thought he might have treated one of his victims."

Will Graham: "They retraced her steps?"

Beverly Katz: "The ones they could find. She made a jump somewhere they couldn’t explain. You make those jumps."

Will Graham: "The evidence has to be there."

Beverly Katz: "Every surgeon that came into contact with any of the Ripper victims has been thoroughly vetted and or currently under observation."

Will Graham: "Including Dr. Gideon."

Jack approaches, solemn.

Jack Crawford: "Dr. Gideon wasn’t in my bedroom. The Chesapeake Ripper was."

Jack takes his phone out of his coat pocket.

Jack Crawford: "That last call left something the others didn’t. A phone number."

Jack presses call. An uncomfortably long beat. Jack is about to end the call, then... A distant ring. And another.

Jack, Will and the FBI Agents turn toward the Observatory.

INT. ABANDONED OBSERVATORY - DAY

Empty. Neglected astronomy equipment and the machines that repair them lay long dormant, dust-covered. The ring continues as camera finds Jack and Will. Jack moves ahead of Will toward the source of the ring and then slows, becoming suddenly hesitant about what he might discover. Then the ring stops.

He hardens his resolve as he sees under the telescope: A hand holding a cell phone. Slightly discolored, like recently greying pig flesh. The hand is attached to a severed arm, nothing else.

Next to the arm, under the telescope is a sign with a simple note that reads: “What do you see?” Jack drops his head.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Hannibal sits on the edge of his desk studying Jack Crawford as he gazes out the window at Baltimore and beyond.

Hannibal Lecter: "What would be the benefit of making you believe your trainee was alive?"

Jack Crawford: "Hope. The Ripper wanted to cloud my vision in the fog of hope."

Hannibal Lecter: "It can sometimes be brave to allow yourself hope."

Jack Crawford: "Not the false kind. I’m not here to talk about the Ripper. It was a mistake for me to come to you the other day, asking about my wife and her therapy."

Hannibal Lecter: "Not to worry. I won’t discuss your visits with her anymore than I’ll discuss her visits with you."

Jack Crawford: "Please don’t."

Hannibal Lecter: "May I ask when your trainee disappeared, how long before you gave up hope?"

Jack Crawford: "Started the minute they told me she was missing. Gave up more every minute that passed after that."

Hannibal Lecter: "Don’t give up hope for your wife. Not yet."

Jack Crawford: "Bella’s accepted she’s going to crash. Stage four cancer. Said herself there’s no stage five."

Hannibal Lecter: "She’s lost hope. Which means you can’t."

Jack Crawford: "You think I have control of that?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Take control."

Jack Crawford: "You keep trying to be my psychiatrist, Dr. Lecter."

Hannibal Lecter: "Because I believe you need one."

Jack Crawford: "That makes one of us."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m sorry about your wife, Jack. I truly am. I believe the world is a better place with her in it. And I’m sorry about your trainee."

Jack Crawford: "Whatever the Ripper was doing, it worked. I thought she was alive. For a moment, anyway. I allowed myself to believe what I knew was impossible. I got played."

Hannibal Lecter: "Indulge me. Talk to me about her. What was her name?"

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY - TWO YEARS EARLIER

Miriam Lass stands in the doorway speaking to Hannibal.

Miriam Lass: "My name is Miriam Lass. With the FBI. I’d show you my credentials, but I’m actually just a trainee."

Hannibal Lecter: "Never just a trainee. An agent in training. Please. Come in."

Miriam does and Hannibal closes the door behind her.

Miriam Lass: "I was hoping to talk to you about a former patient, not necessarily one of yours, but someone you might have come in contact with. When you were a practicing physician."

Hannibal Lecter: "I haven’t practiced medicine in some time, but fortunately for you I have a very good memory."

Miriam Lass: "His name was Jeremy Olmstead."

Hannibal Lecter: "Perhaps not so good a memory after all. I don’t recall a patient with that name, but it sounds familiar."

Miriam Lass: "He was recently found murdered in his workshop. We think he may be a victim of the Chesapeake Ripper."

Hannibal Lecter: "Ah. That’s why he sounds familiar. It’s been all over the news."

Miriam Lass: "He had two old scars on his thigh. Pathologist checked with the local hospital. He had fallen out of a tree-blind five years ago while bow hunting. Stuck an arrow through his leg. Doctor of record was a resident surgeon, but you were on duty in the ER that night."

Hannibal Lecter: "I was?"

Miriam Lass: "Your name was on an admissions log."

Hannibal Lecter: "Let me think. You’ll have to forgive me. I saw so many people in the ER, but not so many hunters."

Miriam Lass: "It’s been a long time since the accident, but I thought you might remember if anything seemed fishy about the arrow wound."

Hannibal Lecter: "If it’s the gentleman I’m thinking of, I vaguely remember a fellow hunter bringing him in. But I recall very little else."

Miriam Lass: "Figured it was a long shot."

Hannibal Lecter: "I did keep detailed journals during those days. If you like, I can get them for you. Maybe you’ll find something helpful."

Miriam Lass: "That’d be great. Would you mind?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Not at all. If you’ll wait here, I’ll be right back."

Miriam Lass: "Thank you."

Hannibal crosses to the ladder and climbs up to the second level. Miriam strolls over to a table with drawings. She casually peruses the stack of pencil illustrations.

A drawing of the Wound Man, an illustration used in early medical books featuring a man covered in impalements. The Victim’s wounds seen earlier in the workshop closely resemble the battle injuries of the drawing.

Her face goes slack, recognizing the connection between the murdered man in the workshop and Hannibal Lecter’s sketch. Hannibal's socked feet pad across the room quietly and quickly toward Miriam, sneaking up behind her.

His hands reach out, hanging briefly in the air, and then snatch. Hannibal coils around Miriam quickly and violently, yet with elegant precision, hoisting her off her feet. She cries out but her yelp is cut short. She kicks violently, legs swinging, sending the table and pencil drawings into the air.

Hannibal is like a column of marble, motionless as Miriam twists and throws, trying in vain to knock him off balance. She reaches behind her head, clawing at Hannibal but he presses his face almost sensually against the back of her neck to protect face and eyes from her slashing fingernails.

Miriam’s eyes roll, defeated, tear-filled, knowing she’s going to die. She begins to go limp in Hannibal’s arms.

A gush of blood sprays across the stack of drawings scattered on the floor and the overturned table. As the blood is absorbed into the paper...