EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Time-lapse establishing.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The pack of dogs are gathered around the heat lamp in the fireplace. Will Graham sleeps fitfully in his bed, drenched with sweat. His fevered brow beads and runs.

A glass of water sweats as it distorts the flickering flame of a fireplace. Hannibal Lecter is there.

Hannibal Lecter: "Someone who already doubts their own identity can be more susceptible to manipulation."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal enters carrying Kudal, an Indian curry of sheep intestines, lovingly displayed in a sculpted banana leaf.

Hannibal Lecter: "Dr. Gideon is a psychopath. Psychopaths are narcissists. They rarely doubt who they are."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Tried to appeal to his narcissism."

Hannibal Lecter: "By convincing him he was the Chesapeake Ripper."

Dr. Chilton realizes he’s gotten himself into trouble.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "If only I had been more curious about the common mind."

Hannibal Lecter: "I have no interest in understanding sheep. Only eating them. Kudal. A South Indian curry. Made from sheep, of course. In a coconut-coriander-chili sauce."

Hannibal serves Dr. Chilton a morsel from the platter.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Feels like a last supper."

Hannibal Lecter: "You’re not the only psychiatrist a patient has accused of making them kill. Poke around a psychopath’s mind, bound to get poked back."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "What would you do in my position?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Deny everything."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I thought psychic driving would have been more effective in breaking down his personality."

Hannibal Lecter: "Psychic driving fails because its methods are too obvious."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Sensory deprivation. Psychic disorientation. Curare."

Hannibal Lecter: "You were trying too hard, Fredrick. If force is used, the subject will only surrender temporarily."

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The Black Stag looms over a fever-dreaming Will.

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal and Dr. Chilton enjoy the beautifully prepared meal.

Hannibal Lecter: "Once a patient is exposed to the method of the manipulation, it becomes much less effective."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "When Dr. Gideon began to suspect he was being pushed..."

Hannibal Lecter: "...he pushed back. The subject mustn’t be aware of any influence. The only motivation one needs is loneliness or mild depression."

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Will opens his eyes. He’s alone in bed.

The numbers on the alarm clock flicker as water begins to run out of the clock case, pouring out from the seams and from around the buttons.

Water pools around Will, too, running out of his pores. Under the bed, water spills over the edge of his mattress. Will loses his form completely in a splash.

Will wakes with a start. No Black Stag. No water. Although, he is entirely drenched in sweat.

Handcuffs click tight on wrists.

INT. BSHCI - ENTRANCE - DAY

Dr. Abel Gideon, wearing a jumpsuit, ankle irons connected to a belt chain, which his wrist cuffs are attached to, is escorted by two officers and a male nurse.

EXT. BSHCI - YARD - DAY

Dr. Chilton waits beside a prison van with a driver. Doors open and Gideon is shuffled out by the officer and nurse. Gideon raises his head and takes a breath, rolls his head in the breeze.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "You get to dress up and I don’t. This might affect how well my testimony goes over with the judge."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Testimony will speak for itself."

The back of the van is a cubicle for prisoners along one wall, opposite a bench seat running along the other side.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Fredrick, don’t look so worried. I forgive you your trespasses."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "What trespasses are those?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "For making me kill that nurse. I take full responsibility for murdering my wife and her family, but the nurse is all your fault."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I can’t take responsibility for your actions, Dr. Gideon."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Sure can. It’s why I’m suing you. Had me thinking I was someone else, now I don’t know what to think."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Dr. Gideon, you told me you were the Chesapeake Ripper."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "No, Dr. Chilton, you told me I was the Chesapeake Ripper. And that’s what I’m going to tell everyone."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "See you in court."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I’ll keep an eye out for you."

The nurse watches as Gideon’s chains are secured to a steel loop in the floor, taking up the slack so he is restrained. The officer swings the door closed.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

The prison van drives through.

INT. PRISON TRANSPORT VAN - DAY

Gideon looks at the officer opposite him, glancing at the male nurse, then back to the officer. Gideon cranes his neck to see the ring on the officer’s marriage finger.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "How long have you been married?"

The officer doesn’t blink.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "That long? Regarding divorce, not that you’re getting one, but the odds are in its favor. Word of advice. It’s always easier to kill them. And anyone else sitting at the table. Thank god we didn’t have children. I would’ve never forgiven myself."

Gideon shakes off that unfortunate thought, pressing on.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I’m sure your wife is fantastic. My wife was a horrible woman. She once made a poor fashion choice regarding her hair. To avoid embarrassment she wore a wig and told people she had cancer. And I’m the bad guy."

Gideon considers that, then decides he’s not the bad guy.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Or maybe I’m just one of those people who shouldn’t be in a relationship. Not everyone should."

He has a genuine moment of reflection, then changes subjects.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Do you always sit in the back? Or do you gentlemen take turns? Well, however it is you came to be sitting with me today, it was nice to spend this time together."

He grins.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

The prison van drives along the road. Suddenly, blood splats against the inside of the rear window of the prison van. The van starts to brake.

EXT. ROAD - PRISON TRANSPORT VAN CRIME SCENE - DAY

Reflective light flashes across Will, bleached by the daylight. All sound is dulled and the ambient noise of Will’s body provides an organic hum. Local cops and FBI secure the scene.

Behind Will is the prison transport van, its doors open, spattered with blood and debris. Will closes his eyes.

A pendulum swings in the darkness of Will Graham’s mind, keeping rhythm with his heartbeat. FWUM. FWUM. FWUM.

His eyes are closed. The pendulum is now outside his head. It swings behind Will, wiping away in its wake the local cops and FBI agents. FWUM. The pendulum swings again and the ambulance and paramedic are gone. FWUM. FWUM.

He opens his eyes and walks backwards toward the Prison Van. Backing into the prisoner holding area and sitting down. FWUM. The doors close behind him.

INT. PRISON TRANSPORT VAN - DAY

Will sits where Gideon was sitting. The pendulum swings across the blood-stained walls and doors, lifting the blood. FWUM. The pendulum swings and the pool of blood on the floor has vanished. Will glances at the bench next to him to see a small torn piece of flesh and a smear of blood. FWUM. Gone.

He glances up to see the officer sitting opposite him and the nurse sitting on the adjacent bench.

Will Graham: "All I need is to get one hand free."

They watch Will, who glances at the bench next to him where the small torn piece of flesh and smear of blood once were. Slamming his hand into the bench, Will dislocates his own thumb and quickly slides his hand free of the cuff. The officer sees this and moves to stop him as Will quickly pops his thumb back into place. The officer lands a blow to Will’s head, before Will pulls him to the bench in a choke hold.

The nurse attempts to intercede and a vicious battle ensues. But Will kicks the Nurse back, pins the officer to the roof of the van with his leg shackles, choking the man out. The man falls to the floor dead allowing Will to flip the Nurse onto the floor of the van. He takes the free handcuff and drives deep into the Nurse’s neck. Will pulls on it and the man’s throat is ripped out in a gush of blood that sprays the inside of the back door windows.

The vehicle lurches to a stop and suddenly, the back doors open, blinding Will momentarily, then... Will springs.

EXT. ROAD - PRISON TRANSPORT VAN CRIME SCENE - DAY

Will steps out of the back of the Prison Transport Van where Jack Crawford is waiting for him.

Jack Crawford: "Does Abel Gideon still believe he’s the Chesapeake Ripper?"

Will Graham: "Abel Gideon’s having a difference of opinion regarding who he is."

Jack Crawford: "This is either Kabuki or some dissociative identity disorder."

Will glances back at the bloody Prison Transport Van.

Will Graham: "Whoever did that, was not in the same state of mind who did this."

A human heart topped with a sprinkling of snow glistens in the sunlight as it slowly spins. It is hanging from the branch of a tree. Tied in place with a length of artery.

The heart is not the only organ suspended from the tree’s branches on varying lengths of human vein. Its branches are full of livers, kidneys, lungs, spleens. The bloodless corpses of the driver, officer and nurse ring the base of the tree, propped up in sitting positions. Beverly Katz, Jimmy Price, and Brian Zeller work the crime scene as Jack and Will approach.

Beverly Katz: "He took a uniform, police radio, two nine millimeter handguns, pepper spray, taser and handcuffs."

Brian Zeller studies an incision in the Nurse’s throat where the carotid artery was crudely removed.

Will Graham: "It’s what he didn’t take."

Beverly Katz: "Hung the organs from the branches with vein from the victims."

Brian Zeller: "Long ones are saphenous veins and those there look like popliteal."

Jimmy Price: "He even tied little bows with them."

Brian Zeller: "Pretty impressive for an arterectomy performed with the contents of a first aid kit. And a dipstick."

He bags the dipstick as evidence.

Will Graham: "The Chesapeake Ripper wouldn’t have left the organs behind."

Jack Crawford: "If Gideon isn’t the Chesapeake Ripper, he’s certainly trying to get his attention."

Beverly Katz: "Local PD’s picked up a foot trail leading out of the woods. Boot soles were consistent with what we found at the crime scene."

Jack Crawford: "How fresh were the tracks?"

Beverly Katz: "Two, three hours old."

Jack Crawford: "Which direction were they headed?"

Beverly Katz: "Back to Baltimore."

INT. BSHCI - DR. CHILTON’S OFFICE - DAY

Dr. Chilton sits glibly behind his moat of a desk.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I suppose this is my fault, too."

Will and Alana stand before Chilton.

Will Graham: "You did dodge a bullet. Gideon’s escape foregoes a trial. And a very public humiliation for you."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Now you’re hosting a private one. Next you’ll be accusing me of arranging his escape."

Alana Bloom: "Nobody’s making that accusation."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "If we’re assigning blame, Dr. Bloom, you’re due your fair share. You planted the suggestion I was unethically manipulating Gideon."

Alana Bloom: "According to Gideon, you were."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "After you told him I was. You thought I was manipulating him? He was manipulating you. All this litigious lather you’ve worked up gave him the opportunity to escape."

Alana Bloom: "You were pushing him."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "He gave me informed consent to treat him. Said he was grateful for my help understanding who he is."

Will Graham: "What did you help him understand?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "He wasn’t insane when he killed his wife. Killing her drove him insane. He disassociated from the previous murders he committed. I didn’t convince him he’s a serial killer. I just reminded him of the fact."

Will Graham: "Gideon is not the Chesapeake Ripper although he may have thought he was while under your care, Doctor."

Alana Bloom: "Whether he is or he isn’t doesn’t matter right now. If he thinks he is or even if he’s confused on that issue, he will kill again."

Dr. Chilton rocks back in his chair.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I hope he doesn’t for your sake. Can’t imagine how you’d sleep with that on your shoulders."

Alana Bloom: "How did you sleep after Gideon killed your nurse?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "They thought he was unconscious. The attendant left the nurse alone for three minutes. And in those three minutes Dr. Gideon did horrible things. I am less responsible for that nurse’s death than the attendant’s small bladder."

Will Graham: "What does Gideon want?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Last thing Abel Gideon said to me was he intended to tell everyone he’s the Chesapeake Ripper."

Will Graham: "He just wasn’t intending to do it in court."

INT. B.A.U. - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

The room has been transformed into a command center for the Gideon Manhunt. Maps and info about Dr. Gideon have been pinned to the walls. Rows of FBI agents listen intently to Jack’s brief.

Jack Crawford: "Our fugitive is Abel Gideon. Transplant Surgeon. Convicted first degree in the murders of his wife and her family. Institutionalized at the Baltimore State Hospital for the Criminally Insane where he murdered a nurse and claimed to be the Chesapeake Ripper."

A man apart, Will leans against the wall at the back of the room, observing the other agents as they listen to Jack.

Jack Crawford: "Dr. Gideon escaped this morning after killing two police transport officers and a hospital attendant. He is armed and dangerous."

Will winces at the buzzing overhead lights, a bead of sweat makes its way out of his hairline down his cheek. Jack’s voice begins to vibrate at the same frequency of the buzz.

Jack Crawford: "He’s believed to be at large in the greater Baltimore area."

All sound drops out. The ambient noise of Will’s circulatory system provides an organic hum, his heart beating faint and fast. Will wipes the sweat from his brow, glancing up.

The room is filled with antlers. They are mounted to every surface of the walls, branching out from the chairs where Agents once sat but are no longer there. Will is hallucinating.

Jack Crawford is the only other man in the room. He speaks M.O.S., the twisting antlers pushing into frame like thorny branches, wrapping around Will’s point of view. Jack looks at Will, his voice cutting through the bramble.

Jack Crawford: "He will kill again."

Will is snapped from his schism by a sharp word from Jack. We are back to reality. The briefing has ended and the various FBI agents are moving into action. Jack Crawford stands on the other side of the room, conferring with FBI agents. He glances at Will. Will resets to normal, his mind resuming synch with the room. He nods to Jack, who registers Will’s odd state with unease.

Hannibal's Voice: "What did you see?"

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Hannibal and Will sit across from each other.

Will Graham: "A thicket of antlers. All I heard was my heart dim but fast, like footsteps fleeing into silence."

Hannibal Lecter: "Have you noticed if these hallucinations occur at a particular time of day?"

Will Graham: "Usually later in the day, at night."

Hannibal Lecter: "Are you more sensitive to light than you used to be?"

Will Graham: "Maybe. Yeah."

Hannibal internally debates how to broach the next subject.

Hannibal Lecter: "Have you heard the term “Sundowning?”"

Will Graham: "Sundowning?"

Hannibal Lecter: "It’s a state of confusion experienced at the end of the day. When there are more shadows. It commonly occurs in the elderly."

Will Graham: "Is it a symptom of dementia?"

Hannibal Lecter: "It can be."

Will stares at Hannibal, then averts his eyes. It’s a truly terrifying suggestion to consider.

Will Graham: "People with dementia have all sorts of sleep disorders and disruptions."

Hannibal Lecter: "They can experience episodes of hallucinations, sleep walking."

Will Graham: "Memory loss."

Hannibal Lecter: "Yes. Also, personality changes."

Will Graham: "Has my personality changed?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you think it’s changed?"

Will Graham: "I don’t know how to gauge who I am anymore. I don’t feel like myself. I feel like I’ve been gradually becoming different for a while. Now I just feel like somebody else."

Hannibal Lecter: "What do you feel like?"

Will Graham: "I feel... crazy."

Hannibal Lecter: "And that is what you fear most."

Will Graham: "I fear not knowing who I am. It’s what Abel Gideon’s afraid of, isn’t it. He’s like a blind man. Somebody got inside his head and moved all the furniture around."

Hannibal Lecter: "I imagine Abel Gideon would want to find the Chesapeake Ripper to gauge who he is. And who he isn’t. Will, you have me as your gauge."

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY

Jack is with Will Graham. Zeller, Price and Katz are present with the bodies of the transport officer and male nurse on trays that have been slid out of open morgue drawers.

Beverly Katz: "Gideon didn’t leave a manifesto. We confiscated all correspondences he got from outside admirers. We’re going through everything now."

Jimmy Price: "Any secret communiques or coded messages written in bodily fluids or anything else, we’ll find them."

Will Graham: "You won’t find anything. Whatever Gideon’s up to is all in his head."

Will notices a trickle of water streaming out of the seam of a closed morgue drawer.

Brian Zeller sorts through organs in sterile bags, wrapped in narrow cords, until he finds two containers of gray matter.

Brian Zeller: "Not much left in these heads. All the organ removals were postmortem. Including transorbital lobotomies."

Jimmy removes the dipstick from an evidence bag.

Jimmy Price: "Dipstick lobotomy."

Will watches as the trickle of water from the morgue drawer forms a puddle that’s pooling around his feet.

Beverly Katz: "It wasn’t technically a lobotomy. Didn’t remove any of the brain, just scrambled them."

Brian Zeller: "Went in through the top of the eye socket and whisked it around."

Will realizes that no one else has noticed the pool of water. He glances back and it’s no longer there.

Jack Crawford: "Why remove every other organ in their bodies completely in tact and then scramble their brains?"

Will tries to shake off his hallucination.

Will Graham: "That’s what they did to him."

Jack Crawford: "That’s what who did to him?"

Will Graham: "Dr. Chilton and every psychiatrist and Ph.D. Candidate who attempted any kind of therapy. Poked and prodded. Gave him tests. Told him who he was, who he wasn’t."

Jack Crawford: "I want a list of every doctor, every therapist, anybody in any kind of psychiatric field who ever had a conversation with Gideon."

Will Graham: "Alana Bloom will be on that list."

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL - DAY

Will Graham swims upstream through the crowd of exiting FBI trainees leaving the lecture hall. Alana Bloom stands behind the desk looking through her papers as he gathers them up.

Alana Bloom: "Are you my protective custody?"

Will Graham: "You heard?"

Alana Bloom: "I heard I get an armed escort until Gideon is apprehended."

Will Graham: "You’ll have a real FBI Agent, not a teacher with a temporary badge."

Alana Bloom: "Too bad. Would have been fun cozying up with your dogs in front of the space heater."

It’s a flirtation, but a mild one.

Will Graham: "Don’t need protective custody to cozy up with my dogs. Or me for that matter. Just a little more stability on my part."

She smiles, touches his cheek and reacts.

Alana Bloom: "You’re really warm."

Will Graham: "I tend to run hot. They say stress raises body temperature."

Alana Bloom: "You should take some aspirin."

Will shakes the bottle of aspirin in his pocket.

Will Graham: "Way ahead of you."

Alana Bloom: "They’re going to kill Gideon, aren’t they?"

Will Graham: "Whatever happens to him, has nothing to do with you."

Alana Bloom: "Gideon’s not completely responsible for his actions if he was subjected to an outside influence."

Will Graham: "Like Dr. Chilton telling him he’s the Chesapeake Ripper?"

Alana Bloom: "Like me telling him he’s not in a state of mind to know who he is."

She can’t help but hold herself slightly accountable.

Alana Bloom: "What do you think will happen if he finds the Ripper?"

Will Graham: "The Chesapeake Ripper will kill him. He took credit for his work. Ripper would consider that rude."

INT. FREDDIE LOUNDS’ CAR - DAY

Freddie Lounds winces through the falling snow at the traffic ahead. The telephone rings and she hits the speaker.

Freddie Lounds: "Freddie Lounds -"

Male Voice: "Miss Lounds, my name is Paul Carruthers, I‘m a psychiatrist. I read your article on Abel Gideon."

Freddie's eyes light up with recognition.

Freddie Lounds: "And I yours, Dr. Carruthers."

Male Voice: "So you're aware of my work?"

Freddie Lounds: "I found your paper on narcissistic personality disorder insightful. Especially as it pertained to your opinions of Abel Gideon."

Male Voice: "Thank you. That's very kind."

Freddie Lounds: "You calling about his escape."

Male Voice: "Oh, yes. I'd like to collaborate on an article for the Journal of Abnormal Psychology."

Freddie Lounds: "You want a writing partner?"

Male Voice: "I have further details regarding Abel Gideon that I have yet to speak of with anyone. I'd be willing to share them with your readers in exchange for any insight you gathered from your interview."

Freddie Lounds: "Shared byline?"

Male Voice: "Of course. Could we meet?"

Off Freddie Lounds, energized.

Paul Carruthers' tongue slides back into his throat and disappears.

INT. DR. CARRUTHERS’ OFFICE - WAITING AREA - NIGHT

Empty waiting area. Freddie Lounds steps in from a corridor to find she's all alone.

Freddie Lounds: "Hello? Dr. Carruthers?"

She glances down a hall and looks for the proper door.

INT. DR. CARRUTHERS’ OFFICE - NIGHT

Dr. Gideon stands behind a seated Dr. Paul Carruthers. Dr. Gideon works patiently making adjustments to Dr. Carruther's neck tie just below frame.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Ms Lounds, please let yourself in!"

Across the room, the door opens. As Freddie enters, her face falls in utter shock and horror.

Bound to a chair, Paul Carruthers is bleeding out. A cannula is lodged in the sides of his neck, having slowly drained his blood. He’s flanked by two IV stands on each side, each one holding a liter of blood. His throat has been slashed and his tongue has been pulled through the open wound to create a "Columbian Neck Tie." As Carruthers's tongue twists and trembles, Dr. Gideon does his best to straighten it like a proper neck tie. Once the tongue is flattened, he turns to reveal he has a handgun which he points at Freddie.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I read in your Tattler archives that the Chesapeake Ripper once removed a man's tongue and used it as a bookmark in his Bible. What do you think? Would the Ripper approve?"

INT. DR. CARRUTHERS’ OFFICE - NIGHT

Paul Carruthers is dead, tongue hanging out of the hole in his throat, lying across his collar and tucked into his waist coat and fastened with a decorative tie pen. Although the stands are still present, the IV bags of blood that once hung on them are now inside an ice-chest cooler on the desk. Jack Crawford and Will Graham are studying the body.

Jack Crawford: "Dr. Paul Carruthers wrote an article for the Journal of Criminal Psychology describing Gideon as a pathological narcissist who suffers from psychotic episodes."

Will Graham: "Let’s hope he got some satisfaction from being proved right."

Jack Crawford: "This isn’t just about getting the Chesapeake Ripper’s attention."

Will Graham: "Gideon’s mind has been dissected by psychiatrists, and as a surgeon, he’s applying his own skill set."

Will takes a closer look at the dead man’s tongue.

Will Graham: "Gideon gave him something better to do with his tongue than wag it."

Jack eyes Will.

Brian Zeller: "That’s not what killed him. Arterial cannulae. Drained him until his heart stopped."

Beverly Katz: "Got a little on his collar."

Jimmy Price examines the bags of blood.

Jimmy Price: "There’s four-and-a-half liters of blood in here. Packed in ice."

Jimmy pulls a note out from under the cooler and reads.

Jimmy Price: "Please deliver to the Red Cross."

Beverly Katz: "That’s considerate."

Jack Crawford: "He’s peacocking for the Ripper."

Will Graham: "This is like flowers and chocolate before a first date."

Will notices Paul Carruthers’ hand is on the computer mouse, forefinger poised to click (if it had any life in it). Will taps the control key and the monitor illuminates. The Tattlecrime.com website home page is already on the screen. The headline reads: “CHESAPEAKE RIPPER ESCAPES.” It’s splashed across a picture of the two trees hanging with organs. The cursor is directly over the refresh circle arrow.

Will pushes Paul Carruthers’ dead finger hover over the mouse and clicks the refresh. The latest home pages loads. The headline story reads: “CHESAPEAKE RIPPER RIPS AGAIN.”

Jack Crawford: "How is this already news?"

Beneath, the exclusive headline is a picture of Paul Carruthers, tongue-tied, blood bags still hanging.

Brian Zeller: "Somebody from Baltimore PD must’ve taken a picture with their phone and sold it to Tattlecrime."

Jack Crawford: "Took the picture before the blood was on ice. Gideon was still here."

Will Graham: "He has Freddie Lounds."

INT. OBSERVATORY - NIGHT

Freddie sits at a vintage school desk. Her face is illuminated by her laptop screen as she types.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "About this time you may be counting exits or at least considering them. There are three. All buttoned up."

Freddie Lounds: "Hence no restraints."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "No need to be uncomfortable. I’m quick. I have a gun and it has bullets even quicker than I am. If you try to escape, Miss Lounds, then I promise you will be found in pieces. Do we have an agreement?"

Freddie Lounds: "Yes."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Good. Now, this relationship you and I have can benefit both of us."

Freddie Lounds: "I can do a big story on you. Anything you want to say."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Although I did enjoy the article you wrote about that poor nurse I killed, it didn’t seem genuine."

Freddie Lounds: "Jack Crawford told me to write it."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "He did."

Freddie Lounds: "To flush out the Chesapeake Ripper."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "And flushed out he was. He waved the severed arm of Jack Crawford’s dead trainee around like a flag. Right here in this room."

Freddie Lounds: "Aren’t you the Chesapeake Ripper?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I admit I’m confused on that one but please don’t patronize me."

Freddie Lounds: "I’m sorry."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "It’s like remembering something from your childhood and wondering if it really happened to you or if it happened to someone else. And then sadly realizing it was just some picture you saw in a book."

Freddie Lounds: "Do you remember your other murders?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Vividly. I never intended to murder my wife. It just struck me as a good idea at the time. Her mother wouldn’t stop screaming while I was doing it so I had to kill her. And by the time I got to her brother and her father, well, those murders were self-defense."

Freddie Lounds: "You’re waiting for the Chesapeake Ripper to come back here."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Let’s hope he gets the invitation. There’s one thing we know about your writing, he’s an avid reader."

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY

Paul Carruthers’ grotesque, bloodless body lies on a gurney. Jack, Will, Alana and Brian Zeller are gathered around dead Carson Nahn, thirties, throat cleanly sliced, tongue pulled through, resting on his upper chest.

Alana Bloom: "Dr. Carson Nahn. He’s the Psychiatric Attending at Western General. Interviewed Gideon for the same psychopathy survey I participated in two years ago."

Brian Zeller: "Total frenectomy. All of the webbing under the tongue, even the connective tissue into the throat has been cut free and pulled through for the... desired effect."

Jack Crawford: "Still no word from Dr. Chilton?"

Alana Bloom: "He hasn’t answered his phone since yesterday and didn’t show up to work this morning."

Alana glances at Will, both assuming the worst.

Will Graham: "Gideon wants to lure the Ripper. He’s going to offer up the man who disrespected both their identities."

Jack Crawford: "Every detail of Paul Carruthers’ murder meticulously described in Freddie Lounds’ article has been faithfully re-created except one..."

Jack pulls back the sheet covering Carson Nahn’s shoulders revealing one of his arms has been recently amputated.

Alana Bloom: "What’s different about Carson? Why amputate his arm?"

Jack Crawford: "Freddie write anything about this?"

Brian Zeller: "Not that I’m aware of."

Will Graham: "Abel Gideon didn’t kill this man. The Chesapeake Ripper did."

Jack Crawford: "The Chesapeake Ripper is copying his own copy cat?"

Alana Bloom: "You said the Chesapeake Ripper would want to kill Gideon for taking credit for his work."

Will Graham: "Gideon’s not alone anymore. The Ripper won’t risk exposure. So he’s telling us how to catch him. Actually, he’s telling you. Where was the last place you saw a severed arm, Jack?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton's eyes slowly open, trying to focus.

INT. OBSERVATORY - NIGHT

Gideon steps into view and Dr. Chilton is strapped to a surgical gurney. His torso is angled upwards, an IV tap running into a vein on the back of his hand. He looks down to see he is covered by surgical drapes.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Did us both a favor and sedated you. You’ll be a little fuzzy around the edges but fully aware."

Gideon glances over his prepped tray of scalpels.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I’ve found surgeries are better done with the patient conscious under local or epidural. Reminds me there’s a person there trusting me with their life. Not just a piece of meat being manipulated. However, in this instance, I mostly want to see the look on your face."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Please... you’re not the Chesapeake Ripper, you don’t have to do this."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "No, I’m not. And yes, I do. You got inside my head, Fredrick. Now I’m getting inside you."

Chilton’s head turns and he sees Freddie Lounds holding a pump ventilator.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "You’ve met Freddie Lounds. She’ll be assisting me today. More you. I’ll have her manually pumping the ventilator to keep you breathing."

A terrified Freddie glances at Chilton, then averts her eyes.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Before we begin, I have to ask: while you were fumbling with my mind, did you ever think the real Chesapeake Ripper would kill again?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "He’d be dismissed as a copy cat."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I hope he considers what I’m about to do to you an apology for any part I played in that insult."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Ohmygod."

Gideon makes a long incision along Dr. Chilton’s abdomen, who is horrified to see his skin part and his blood seep.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "What are you doing?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "The Chesapeake Ripper collects surgical trophies. In the event we never meet, I thought I’d leave him a gift. Or rather a gift basket."

Gideon works below frame, slowly removing an organ that steams ever-so-slightly in the cold room.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "It’s amazing how many organs the body can offer up before it really starts to suffer."

Dr. Chilton’s eyes begin to role into the back of his head. Gideon gently slaps him repeatedly with the back of his hand, bringing Dr. Chilton’s eyes back into focus.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Now it’s very important that you stay awake because I’m going to ask you to hold a few things."

INT. F.B.I. S.U.V. - NIGHT

Will sits in the backseat with Jack Crawford. FBI agents up front. Jack studies Will as he glances out the window at the street lights intermittently flashing past.

Jack Crawford: "I want you to wait outside."

Will Graham: "I think that’s probably best."

Jack Crawford: "You look like hell, Will."

Will Graham: "I feel like hell. Actually, I feel fluid. Like I’m... spilling. I must be coming down with something. Hope it’s not contagious."

Jack Crawford: "This. What we do. Can weaken your immune system. If you allow it."

Will Graham: "If I allow it?"

Jack Crawford: "Keep this all in perspective. Keep yourself in perspective."

Will Graham: "Myself is in a haze at the moment."

Jack Crawford: "You seem over-whelmed. You’ve got to take care of yourself, Will."

Will Graham: "Build up my resistance?"

Jack Crawford: "Just don’t let yourself go. As much as you can, let the rest of it go. You take too much of this with you."

Will Graham: "It’s hard to shake off what’s already under your skin."

Will's eyes are closed. He listens to a pounding rain outside his head. He slowly opens his eyes. Sheets of water pour over the windows indicating a heavy rain outside. The sound drowns out all other sound. Jack Crawford and the other FBI agents exit the vehicle, quietly shutting doors as they move across the field.

Will watches the distorted images of Jack Crawford and the FBI agents stealthily moving off. He finally unbuckles his seat belt and gets out.

EXT. OBSERVATORY - F.B.I. S.U.V. - NIGHT

Will steps out of the vehicle and there is no evidence of the heavy rain fall he witnessed when he was inside. The loud sound of rain is abruptly absent.

There are two other F.B.I. S.U.V.s parked on the road, FBI agents moving toward the Observatory from each of them, following Jack Crawford and the others.

Will casts a foggy look to the nearby tree-line. Something’s moving in the forest. It’s the Black Stag. He moves, drawn toward the treeline, heading away from the Observatory.

EXT. OBSERVATORY - NIGHT

The FBI team slowly and stealthily approach the Observatory. Jack Crawford stands by the door to the Observatory. He hears a low moan. The big telescope doors are opening. He looks at an FBI SWAT officer. Jack nods. The SWAT officer pulls the door open.

INT. OBSERVATORY - NIGHT

Jack runs into the space and sees moonlight streaming through the telescope doors revealing Dr. Chilton.

The drip in his arm. He is reclining in the gurney. He holds his own insides in his lap, a grotesque basket of organs, like hellish fruit. Freddie Lounds works furiously, rhythmically pumping air.

Freddie Lounds: "He’s still alive."

Jack Crawford: "Get medical in here! Now!"

EXT. OBSERVATORY - NIGHT

From a distant vantage point, Gideon amongst trees, watching the FBI flood the Observatory. He sighs, disappointed. Jack Crawford exits the observatory and confers with FBI agents. He watches for a moment, then recedes into the darkness.

EXT. FOREST ROAD - NIGHT

Will stumbles out of the trees and stops short. The Black Stag stands at the side of the road, motionless, staring back. They watch each other for a still moment. Will slowly un-holsters his gun. He raises his weapon at the Stag, his finger tensing on the trigger.

INT. GIDEON’S CAR - NIGHT

Gideon slides behind the wheel, glancing up in the rearview mirror to see Will Graham sitting in his back seat. He’s in a flop sweat, the gun still in his hand pointing at Gideon’s back through the backrest of the front seat.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I was expecting the Chesapeake Ripper. Or are you him?"

Gideon glances over his shoulder at Will’s drawn gun. In Will’s fevered P.O.V., Gideon is now Garret Jacob Hobbs, his eyes cloudy and dead.

Will Graham: "Turn around. Don’t look at me."

Will looks grey, sweating, swaying. The gun unsteady. Gideon looks at Will’s state.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "You’re a little peaky, Mr. Graham, if I’m allowed to say so. I may be crazy, but I believe you’re sick."

Garret Jacob Hobbs stares at him from the rearview mirror.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Who is your doctor?"

Will’s eyes droop, but then he shakes it off. Wipes sweat from his brow with his free hand.

Will Graham: "Drive."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - MUD ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal has opened his door on Abel Gideon and a pale and sweating Will Graham, holding a gun on Gideon’s back. Hannibal backs inside, allowing Gideon and Will to enter.

Hannibal Lecter: "Will, what are you doing here?"

Will closes the door behind him, keeping the gun on Gideon. Gideon looks exactly like Garret Jacob Hobbs.

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Garret Jacob Hobbs sits at the head of the table. Will Graham stands between Hannibal and Hobbs.

Will Graham: "I didn’t know where else to go. I’m... I’m having a hard time thinking. I feel like I’m losing my mind. I don’t know what’s real."

Will points his gun at Gideon, who remains silent, observing Hannibal’s navigation of the situation.

Hannibal Lecter: "It’s 7:27 PM. You’re in Baltimore, Maryland. Your name is Will Graham."

Will Graham: "I don’t care who I am. Tell me... if he’s real."

Hannibal Lecter: "Who do you see, Will?"

Will Graham: "Garret Jacob Hobbs. Who do you see?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I don’t see anyone."

The admission throws Will into more confusion. Will fights the welling tears, terrified of his madness.

Will Graham: "He’s. Right. There."

Hannibal Lecter: "There’s no one there, Will."

Will shakes his head, glancing over and seeing Garret Jacob Hobbs staring quietly back at him.

Will Graham: "You’re lying."

Hannibal Lecter: "We’re alone. You came here alone. Do you remember coming here?"

Will Graham: "Please don’t lie to me."

Hannibal Lecter: "Garret Jacob Hobbs is dead. You killed him. You watched him die."

Will holds his head, trying desperately to hold on.

Will Graham: "What’s happening to me..."

Hannibal Lecter: "You’re having an episode. I want you to hand me your gun."

Will shakes his head through confusion, shudders, goes still.

Hannibal Lecter: "Will?"

Will's pupils have dilated dramatically. Hannibal examines Will’s eyes.

Hannibal Lecter: "He’s had a mild seizure."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "That doesn’t seem to bother you."

Hannibal Lecter: "I said it was mild."

He removes the gun from Will’s hand, directing at Gideon.

Hannibal Lecter: "Are you the man who claimed to be the Chesapeake Ripper?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Why do you say claimed?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Because you’re not. You know you’re not and you don’t know much more about who you are beyond that."

Gideon is struck silent by that assessment. Hannibal sits opposite Gideon at the dining table.

Hannibal Lecter: "A terrible thing to have your identity taken from you."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I’m taking it back one piece at a time. You should see the pieces I got out of my psychiatrist."

Hannibal Lecter: "Alana Bloom was one of your psychiatrists, too. Is that right?"

Dr. Abel Gideon: "Yes. Dr. Bloom."

Hannibal Lecter: "I can tell you where to find her."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Will shakes his head, confused. Garret Jacob Hobbs watches him from across the dining room table.

Will Graham: "Please don’t lie to me."

Hannibal Lecter: "Garret Jacob Hobbs is dead. You killed him. You watched him die."

Will holds his head, trying desperately to hold on.

Will Graham: "What’s happening to me..."

Will’s hand push through the tissue of his face, which pours through his fingers in horrifying fashion. He stares into middle distance and blinks.

Hannibal Lecter: "Will... can you hear me?"

Will slowly nods, disoriented.

Hannibal Lecter: "Repeat after me. My name is Will Graham."

Will Graham: "My name is Will Graham."

Hannibal Lecter: "Raise both of your arms."

Will does as instructed, Hannibal studies them, then gently pushes them back down again.

Hannibal Lecter: "Although you may not feel like it, I need you to smile."

Will does as instructed.

Hannibal Lecter: "It wasn’t a stroke. You may have had a seizure. Tell me the last thing you remember."

Will Graham: "I was with Garret Jacob Hobbs."

Hannibal Lecter: "You have a fever. You were hallucinating. You thought he was alive. In the room with you."

Will Graham: "I saw him."

Hannibal Lecter: "He’s a delusion disguising reality. Don’t let that let you slip away. You killed Garret Jacob Hobbs once. Can find a way to kill him again."

Hannibal places his car keys on the dining room table.

Will Graham: "Where are you going?"

Hannibal moves toward the door, shrugging on his coat.

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m worried about Alana Bloom. Abel Gideon is still at large. He mutilated Dr. Chilton. They found him clinging to life. Will..."

Will Graham: "Alana."

Will stands but Hannibal gently pushes him back down.

Hannibal Lecter: "You’re in no state to go anywhere but the hospital. I’ll call Jack Crawford. Tell him where you are."

Hannibal exits and returns with the telephone, dialing, but Will is already gone. Hannibal hangs up the phone, content.

EXT. ALANA’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Framed by the window pane, Alana Bloom works at her desk. Gideon stands outside her window, some distance away, studying her.

Will Graham stands behind him.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "I don’t know if I’ll feel like myself again. I don’t know if there’s a self left to feel like. I spent so much time believing I was him it got harder to remember who I was when I wasn’t him."

Will Graham: "Who are you now?"

In Will’s mind on fire, Gideon appears to be Garret Jacob Hobbs.

Garret Jacob Hobbs: "You."

Will is horrified by Garret Jacob Hobbs’ comparison. Gideon turns his attention back to Alana in the window.

Dr. Abel Gideon: "We’re both here. Looking at her. Just those kind of people who shouldn’t be in a relationship. You and I are already committed. Hard to be with another person when you can’t get out of your own head."

Will Graham: "I want to get out."

Dr. Abel Gideon: "We all want things we can’t have. If I kill her... like he would kill her... I wonder if I could understand him better, hear the cold drips in his darkness, watch the world through his red haze."

He turns to Will and we reveal Gideon is Garret Jacob Hobbs.

Garret Jacob Hobbs: "I wonder if then you could finally understand who you’ve become."

Will stares at him and for a moment, seem clear headed.

INT. ALANA’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Alana jumps at the sudden sound of a gunshot outside.

EXT. ALANA’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Will Graham is sweating, breathing heavily. The gun drops from his hand and drops the grass next to Gideon.

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - JACK CRAWFORD’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Jack stares at pictures of Abel Gideon on his corkboard before pulling them down, along with the maps of his escape.

Jack Crawford: "They’ll be sewing Dr. Chilton back together until morning. If he lives through the night."

Hannibal Lecter: "At least Will remains in one piece. For now. His temperature is 105. White blood cell count is twice normal. They still can’t identify the source of the infection."

Jack Crawford: "They will."

Hannibal Lecter: "You seem confident."

Jack Crawford: "Even with a 105 degree fever, Will brought Gideon down. He’s going to be fine. I told you. Will always comes back to being Will."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will’s sense of self has not been constant or even continuous. How he thinks of what he does is becoming less and less evident. I would recommend you suspend his license to carry firearms."

Jack glances at Hannibal -- that’s a serious recommendation.

Jack Crawford: "Are you having a difference of opinion about who Will is?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I know who Will is. Will knows who he is. But our experiences shape us, Jack. How are Will’s experiences shaping him?"

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Alana Bloom sits on bed and watches over unconscious Will Graham, he’s hooked up to an IV and several monitors. She finally takes his hand in hers.