QUANTICO, VIRGINIA - EXT. F.B.I. SHOOTING RANGE - DAY

Gunshots in the stalls around Will Graham ring in his ears, but he's focused on his target -- gazing uncomfortably at it. He pulls off his safety glasses, setting his pistol down and trying and failing to measure his breath.

A dead-eyed Garret Jacob Hobbs stands at the end of the alley. He appears to glide toward Will menacingly.

Will fumbles for his pistol, re-loading with shaking hands before he fires. The bullets rip through Hobbs like paper, leaving clean holes and no blood. Garret Jacob Hobbs doesn't stop, continuing to advance even as Will fires a barrage of bullets.

INT. F.B.I. S.U.V. - BACKSEAT - DAY

Will wakes with a small start as Jack Crawford knocks on the window he's presently using as a pillow.

Jack Crawford: "We're here."

CHIPPEWA NATIONAL FOREST, MINNESOTA - EXT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - DAY

A cold wind whips dead leaves around the eerie animal-skull-covered cabin where Garret Jacob Hobbs committed his murders.

INT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - DAY

A wall of antlers. No trace of actual wall is visible through the bramble, now covered in F.B.I. evidence bags, barely concealing the antlers underneath. The massive rack of a mature stag serves as the centerpiece of this macabre facade, chalky-white branches contrasted against crown-tines purpled by dry blood.

Will is transfixed by the horrifying cage of bones around him. Every inch of wall, floor and ceiling is obscured by layers of antler under a veil-like evidence bag. Will focuses on the bloody stag rack, cutting through the bag to look closer. He turns, examining the rest of the room. Will looks around the room from this horrible vantage point.

The door to the little shack creaks open as Jack steps quietly in, a steady unease about him. Will doesn't look up.

Will Graham: "Could be a permanent installation in your Evil Minds museum."

Jack Crawford: "What we learn from Garret Jacob Hobbs will help us catch the next Garret Jacob Hobbs. There are still seven bodies unaccounted for."

Will Graham: "Because he ate them."

Jack Crawford: "Had to be parts he didn't eat."

Will Graham: "Not necessarily."

Jack considers the magnitude of the room, coldly disturbed.

Jack Crawford: "What if Hobbs wasn't eating alone. A lot of work. Disappearing these girls, butchering them and then worse. All without leaving a shred of anything outside of this room."

Will considers that a moment, then:

Will Graham: "Someone he hunted with?"

Jack Crawford: "Or someone in a coma. Who happens to also be someone he hunted with."

INT. JOHNS HOPKINS - ABIGAIL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Will stands over comatose Abigail in her bed, holding her hand, feeling responsible. He is silent.

INT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - DAY

Will opens his eyes, still digesting.

Will Graham: "Abigail Hobbs is a suspect?"

Jack Crawford: "We've been conducting house-to-house interviews around the Hobbs residence and this property."

Will Graham: "What's the gossip?"

Jack Crawford: "Hobbs and his daughter spent a lot of time together. They spent a lot of time together here. She would be the ideal bait, wouldn't she?"

He studies the floor around him, eyes catching on something.

Will Graham: "Hobbs killed alone."

Will's tone is definitive and Jack doesn't press the issue, but most certainly takes note of it. Will uses the tweezers in his pocket to tweeze something off an evidence bag, holding up a long, red hair in the tweezers.

Will Graham: "Someone else was here."

MINNESOTA - INT. MOTEL ROOM

Freddie Lounds sits naked at a weathered motel desk, working at her laptop connected to a larger portable monitor. Her long red hair cascades over her shoulders, recently showered.

Various photographs of the Antler Room "slideshow" across her monitor, as they are downloading from an expensive camera. Freddie drags a picture of the Antler Room under a banner reading "IN THE MINNESOTA SHRIKE'S NEST: EXCLUSIVE PHOTOS."

She does click-clicking on her keyboard and clicks "UPLOAD."

QUANTICO, VIRGINIA - INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - HALLWAY - DAY

Will Graham walks down the corridor toward his lecture hall. He peers through the window of his classroom. Pushing his glasses up, Will takes a breath and steps into the room.

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL - DAY

To his surprise, he's greeted with a standing ovation from his students. The clapping stops him cold. Will waves them off, uncomfortable.

Will Graham: "Thank you. Please stop that."

The applause peters out. Will dumps his briefcase on the desk and dives right into the lecture. He dims the lights, bringing up a slide of Hobbs’s resignation letter.

Will Graham: "This is how I caught Garret Jacob Hobbs. It's his resignation letter. Anybody see the clue?"

A few hands go into the air. Will ignores them.

Will Graham: "There isn’t one. He wrote a letter, left his phone number... but no address. That’s it."

Will advances to the next slide and we see the crime scene photo of the Hobbs kitchen -- dead Hobbs, blood everywhere. It’s horrific.

Will Graham: "Bad bookkeeping and dumb luck."

Will suddenly walks into frame.

INT. HOBBS’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Abigail Hobbs on the floor, her struggle to breathe underscored by the wheeze of air through her slashed wind-pipe. Will applies pressure to the wounds, cradling her head in his lap. He looks up to see Garret Jacob Hobbs. He hisses at Will through jagged, dying teeth.

Garret Jacob Hobbs: "See?"

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL - DAY

Will quickly clicks to the next slide: a picture of Garret Jacob Hobbs and his daughter Abigail in happier times, smiling after a hunting trip.

Will Graham: "Garret Jacob Hobbs is dead. The question now is how to stop those his story is going to inspire."

Will studies the picture, taking stock of the happy Abigail before he clicks. Cassie, splayed across the rack of a stag, jumps onto the overhead screen.

Will Graham: "He’s already got one admirer."

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - HALLWAY

Alana Bloom hurries down the corridor toward Will's lecture hall.

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL - DAY

Alana enters as the Trainees file out of the classroom. Will is actively avoiding eye-contact with the students filing out, but somehow immediately notices Alana's arrival.

Will Graham: "Hi."

Alana Bloom: "How are you, Will?"

Will Graham: "I have no idea."

Alana Bloom: "That may change. I didn't want you to be ambushed --"

Will Graham: "Is this an ambush?"

Alana Bloom: "Ambush is later. Immediately later, soon to now. When Jack arrives consider yourself ambushed."

Jack Crawford enters, navigating the last of the Trainees.

Will Graham: "Here's Jack."

Jack Crawford: "How was class?"

Will Graham: "They applauded, it was inappropriate."

Jack Crawford: "Review board begs to differ. You’re up for a commendation and they okayed active return to the field."

Will takes this in, between pleased and apprehensive.

Alana Bloom: "Question is... do you want to go back in the field."

Jack Crawford: "I want you to go back in the field, but I told the Board I'm recommending a psych evaluation."

Will glances to Alana, who apologizes with a look.

Will Graham: "Are we starting now?"

Alana Bloom: "Session wouldn't be with me."

Jack Crawford: "Hannibal Lecter might be a better fit. Your relationship's not as personal. But if you'd be more comfortable with Dr. Bloom--"

Will Graham: "I'm not going to be comfortable with anybody inside my head."

Alana Bloom: "You've never killed someone before, Will. It's a deadly force encounter. It's a lot to digest."

Will Graham: "I used to work homicide. I've got a good metabolism."

Jack Crawford: "Reason you currently 'used to' work homicide is you couldn't stomach pulling the trigger. You just pulled the trigger ten times."

Will Graham: "So Psych Eval's not a formality?"

Jack Crawford: "It's so I can sleep. I asked you to get close to Hobbs and I need to know you didn't get too close. How many times have you spent the night in Abigail Hobbs' hospital room?"

Will Graham: "Therapy doesn't work on me."

Jack Crawford: "'Cause you won't let it."

Will Graham: "'Cause I know all the tricks."

Jack Crawford: "Un-learn some tricks."

Alana Bloom: "Why not have a conversation with Hannibal. He was there. He knows what you went through."

Jack Crawford: "I need my beauty sleep, Will."

Will bristles. Alana offers him a supportive smile.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER’S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - EVENING

The door opens and Hannibal speaks to his next patient:

Hannibal Lecter: "Good evening. Please come in."

Will Graham sits inscrutably, waiting.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER’S OFFICE - EVENING

Hannibal Lecter in his office, a prescient smile tickling the corners of his mouth as he sits with Will Graham. Hannibal slides a piece of high-quality stationary across the table.

Will Graham: "What's this?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Your Psychological Evaluation. You're totally functional and more or less sane. Well done."

Will Graham: "Did you just rubber stamp me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Jack Crawford may lay his weary head to rest knowing he didn't break you and our conversation can proceed unobstructed by paperwork."

Will studies Hannibal a moment, then:

Will Graham: "Jack thinks I need therapy."

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm not sure therapy will work on you. Stealing into other minds has taught you how to fortify your own."

Will Graham: "That's what I said."

Hannibal Lecter: "What you need is a way out of dark places when Jack sends you there."

The simplicity of that strikes Will.

Will Graham: "Last time he sent me into a dark place I brought something back."

Hannibal Lecter: "A surrogate daughter?"

Will debates arguing the suggestion, then doesn't.

Will Graham: "Not cause I got too close to Hobbs."

Hannibal Lecter: "You saved Abigail Hobbs' life. You also orphaned her. It comes with certain emotional obligations, regardless of empathy disorders."

Will Graham: "You were there. You saved her life, too. Do you feel obligated?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I feel a staggering amount of obligation. I feel responsibility. I've fantasized about scenarios where my actions may have allowed a different fate for Abigail Hobbs."

Will studies Hannibal, feeling a sense of camaraderie.

Will Graham: "Jack thinks Abigail Hobbs might've helped her dad kill those girls."

A long silence, then:

Hannibal Lecter: "How does that make you feel?"

Will Graham: "How does it make you feel?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I find it vulgar."

Will Graham: "Me, too."

Hannibal Lecter: "And entirely possible."

Will Graham: "It's not what happened."

Hannibal Lecter: "Jack will ask her when she wakes up or he'll have one of us ask her."

Will Graham: "Is this therapy or a support group?"

Hannibal Lecter: "It's whatever you need it to be. Will, the mirrors in your mind can reflect the best of yourself and not the worst of someone else."

EXT. FOREST - DAY

Three Wildlife Explorers, Troy, Steve, and Jason, stomp through the dense vegetation into a clearing. The boys stop short as Troy approaches a burlap sack covering what may be some kind of vegetable.

Troy: "I bet it's marijuana."

Steve: "They're tomatoes. The sack is to keep the raccoons from eating them."

Troy: "Why would you grow tomatoes all the way out here? It's marijuana."

Troy slowly pulls the Burlap Sack off to reveal a human arm protruding from the ground, stock-like, the base sprouting a quilt-work of nest-shaped mushrooms. The boys' jaws drop.

Jason: "That's not marijuana."

The small clearing is filled with six more burlap sacks, horror hiding under each one of them.

QUANTICO, VIRGINIA - EXT. FBI SHOOTING RANGE - DAY

Will blasts away once more at his target. He returns the target from down-range, unhappy with his accuracy but pleased he's not seeing Hobbs. He doesn't notice the arrival of Beverly Katz.

Beverly Katz: "I'm pretty sure firearm 'accuracy' isn't a prerequisite for teaching."

Will finds Beverly behind him, looking on. She smiles.

Will Graham: "I've been in the field before."

Beverly Katz: "Now you're back in the saddle. Ish."

Will Graham: "Ish, indeed. It took me ten shots to drop Hobbs."

Will turns back to the target; his bullet holes are all over the place.

Beverly Katz: "Zeller wanted to give you the bullets he pulled out of Hobbs in an acrylic case, but I told him you wouldn't think it was funny."

Will Graham: "Probably not."

He throws a fresh target on the clips, sends it down range.

Beverly Katz: "I suggested he turn them into a Newton's Cradle, one of those clacking swinging ball things."

Will Graham: "Now that would have been funny."

He fires and misses the target entirely.

Beverly Katz: "Are you a Weaver or isosceles guy?"

Will Graham: "I have a rotator-cuff issue, so I have to use the Weaver stance."

He assumes the position, demonstrating. Beverly studies him. She puts a hand on his right shoulder, pressing down gently.

Beverly Katz: "You are tight."

Will Graham: "I got stabbed when I was a cop."

Beverly Katz: "I got stabbed in the third grade. With a number 2 pencil. Thought I was going to get lead poisoning."

Will Graham: "No lead in a pencil. Graphite."

Beverly Katz: "Now you tell me."

She reaches around and flares out his left elbow instead.

Beverly Katz: "See if that helps with the recoil."

Will exhales and BLAM! BLAM-BLAM-BLAM! He drills the target in a much tighter cluster. Beverly returns the target.

Will Graham: "It's better. You come all the way down here to teach me how to shoot?"

Beverly Katz: "No, Jack sent me down here to find out what you know about gardening."

EXT. FOREST - DAY

A nest-shaped mushroom, Pleurotus Nidiformis to be exact, sprouts from a quilt-work of moist soil and decaying matter. Suddenly, the soil and decay (along with the mushroom) are parted to expose the broken-down, yet unmistakable features of a human face.

The face belongs to a naked man being pulled from the ground by Emergency Medical Technicians. Most of the man's body is covered in a morbidly vibrant kingdom of fungus and mold.

The EMTs place a body-bagged body on a gurney and wheel him towards an ambulance, leaving five more occupied body bags waiting for transport. As they pass, Will and Jack slip under the police tape cordoning off the area.

Jack Crawford: "Lecter gave you the 'all clear.' Maybe therapy does work on you."

Will Graham: "Therapy is an acquired taste I have yet to acquire but sure served your purpose. I'm back in the field."

Jack eyes Will, feeling the dismissal of his Psych Eval.

Jack Crawford: "Local police found more small animal traps in the surrounding woods. They even discovered a thirty gallon drum of pesticide hidden in a hollow tree along with a rusted Radio Flyer wagon."

Will Graham: "Didn't want his 'crop' disturbed."

Jack Crawford: "All that's missing is a scarecrow."

They approach Beverly Katz, Brian Zeller, and Jimmy Price. Behind them, the FBI's CSI Team works to carefully unearth the three remaining buried victims from their shallow graves.

Jimmy Price: "Seven bodies, various stages of decay, all very well fertilized."

Beverly reaches into a grave containing a partially uncovered, fungus-ravaged corpse (its eyes, nose, and mouth covered in duct tape) and palms a handful of black soil -- much different than the brown clay walls of the grave.

Beverly Katz: "He buried them in a high-nutrient compost. He was enthusiastically encouraging decomposition."

Jimmy Price: "Patient way to dispose of a body."

Brian Zeller: "They were buried alive with the intention of keeping them that way. At least for a little while."

Jimmy Price: "Long enough for the fungus to eat any distinguishing features and make it nearly impossible to tell how long they'd been in the ground."

Zeller points to a catheter in the victim's outstretched arm, which is supported by a section of rebar.

Brian Zeller: "Line and rebar were to administer intravenous fluids after burial. He was feeding them something."

Will Graham: "No restraints? They weren't bound? Nothing to stop them crawling out?"

Jimmy Price: "Just dirt."

Beverly pulls a tiny brush from the kit on her belt. She clears the debris from under the corpse's nose and pulls back the duct tape revealing a breathing tube jammed into its nostrils. She points off camera.

Beverly Katz: "The other end of the air supply system comes up over there."

Will turns to find a small umbrella in the grass. Pulling on a rubber glove, he picks up the umbrella to find an exposed piece of tubing sticking out of the ground.

Beverly Katz: "It isn't a very considerate clean air solution, which clearly wasn't a priority. Cause he's not lazy."

Will Graham: "No, he's not."

Will stares at the corpse in the garden grave.

Jack Crawford: "Let's clear the scene."

Jack herds Zeller, Price, and Beverly, along with straggling E.M.T.s and local police out of the clearing and back into the surrounding woods, away from Will and the graves.

The three Wildlife Explorer Scouts seen earlier and their parents crane their necks from behind the crime scene tape. Freddie Lounds stands among them surreptitiously snapping photos of Will as Jack leads the others away. She lowers her camera and sidles up beside local Detective Pascal.

Freddie Lounds: "Excuse me. I'm one of the parents of the Explorers who found the bodies. I wanted to thank you for being so good with all the boys."

Detective Pascal: "Those boys were very brave."

Freddie Lounds: "They are good boys. You're a local police detective?"

Detective Pascal: "Yes, ma'am."

Freddie Lounds: "Would it be an imposition to ask a few things? The boys are gonna have questions and I just want to be as honest with them as I can."

Detective Pascal: "Of course."

Freddie Lounds: "Can you tell me what that man is doing over there by himself?"

Detective Pascal: "That guy? He's some kinda special consultant. Works with the F.B.I."

Freddie Lounds: "Huh."

Will takes a deep, calming breath, exhales, closes his eyes.

A pendulum swings in the darkness of Will's mind, keeping rhythm with his heart beat. FWUM. FWUM. All sound is muffled then buried beneath the organic hum of his circulatory system.

FWUM. FWUM. The fungus shrinks in a stylistic device, rewinding Will to a time before the last burial. FWUM.

His eyes are closed. FWUM. FWUM. The pendulum is now outside his head. It swings in front of Will and the exhumed garden graves are now a small field of burlap sack covered arms -- save for one open grave. Next to the grave is the Radio Flyer wagon overflowing with moist, black dirt. FWUM.

Will Graham opens his eyes and walks backwards toward the edge of the clearing and into the surrounding woods. FWUM. FWUM. The pendulum stops swinging, snapping into place as Will snaps into a very clear focus.

Freddie Lounds and Detective Pascal watch Will's seemingly strange process from behind the Crime Scene Tape. Detective Pascal notices that the Wildlife Explorers are being gathered up by their Parents and moved off. He indicates to Freddie, who has also caught the eye of Brian Zeller on the other side of the tape.

Detective Pascal: "I think your family is leaving."

Freddie can't take her eyes off Will Graham's peculiarities.

Freddie Lounds: "We drove separately."

Will digs a shovel into the moist, black dirt. He is now standing over a naked man lying on his back in a shallow open grave. Will speaks as he shoves an oxygen tube into the man's nose, then covers his eyes and mouth with duct-tape, then tethers him to a piece of rebar, fixing the catheter in place.

Will Graham: "I choose this man. I do not bind his arm or legs as I bury him in a shallow grave. He is alive but will never be conscious again."

Climbing out, Will shovels a load of compost from the wagon and holds it over the man, preparing to dump it on him. Will dumps the dirt into the grave, covering the man. Will turns away to get more dirt from the Radio Flyer wagon.

Will Graham: "He won't know he's dying. I don't need him to. This is my design."

However, when Will turns back to the grave, he stops cold. Garret Jacob Hobbs is now lying in the grave leering up at him. All sound abruptly drops out as Will stares, caught in a vacuum unable to breath. He squeezes his eyes shut, jagged breath threatening hyperventilation.

Will focuses and finally opens his eyes, looking back into the open grave. There is no Garret Jacob Hobbs. Only a man's body covered in morbidly vibrant fungus and molds. Will breaths a sigh of relief, relieved to be alone with the dead.

Then SNATCH! The fungus covered arm grabs Will by the wrist, a rattled, wet gasp signals a sharp in-take of air. He's still alive. Terrified, Will screams in abject horror.

Freddie cranes her head over Detective Pascal's shoulder as Will's sudden scream draws everyone's attention. Freddie watches Crawford, Zeller, Price and Katz race toward Will.

Freddie Lounds: "Looks like you got a live one."

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND - INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - EVENING

Will pushes the high-quality letterhead bearing Hannibal Lecter's Psych Eval back toward the man himself.

Will Graham: "This may have been premature."

Hannibal slides the letterhead back toward Will.

Hannibal Lecter: "They'll revoke my rubber stamp."

Will Graham: "Maybe they should."

Hannibal Lecter: "What did you see? Out in the field?"

Will considers the question, debating how to answer, then:

Will Graham: "Hobbs."

Hannibal Lecter: "An association?"

Will Graham: "A hallucination. I saw him lying there... in someone else's grave."

Hannibal Lecter: "Did you tell Jack what you saw?"

Will Graham: "No."

Hannibal Lecter: "It's stress. Not worth reporting. The mechanism that distinguishes conscious perceptions from internal perceptions misfired. You displaced the victim of another killer's crime with what could arguably be considered your victim."

Will Graham: "I don't consider Hobbs my victim."

Hannibal Lecter: "What do you consider him?"

Will Graham: "Dead."

Hannibal Lecter: "Is it harder imagining the thrill somebody else feels killing now that you've done it yourself?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

Hannibal appreciates the simple honesty of Will's answer.

Hannibal Lecter: "The arms. Why did he leave them exposed? To hold their hands? Feel the life leaving their body?"

Will Graham: "Too esoteric for someone who took the time to bury his victims in a straight line. He's more practical."

Hannibal Lecter: "He was cultivating them?"

Will Graham: "He was keeping them alive. Feeding them fluids intravenously."

Hannibal Lecter: "Your farmer let his crops die, save for the one that didn't."

Will Graham: "The one that didn't died on the way to the hospital. They weren't crops. They were the fertilizer. The bodies were covered in fungus."

Hannibal Lecter: "Mycelium kill forests over and over, building deeper soil to grow larger and larger trees."

Will Graham: "If it were just about the soil, why bother keeping the victims alive?"

Hannibal Lecter: "The structure of a fungus mirrors that of the human brain. An intricate web of connections."

Will Graham: "Maybe he admires their ability to connect the way human minds can't."

Hannibal Lecter: "Yours can."

Will Graham: "Not physically. Not with reciprocity."

Hannibal Lecter: "Is that what your Farmer is looking for? Some sort of connection."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - EVENING

A high-powered microphone, like a stethoscope, is held against the wall. Freddie Lounds sits in the waiting room, her bag at her side, eavesdropping on Hannibal and Will Graham's therapy session via ear buds.

A moment as Freddie listens, then a quick scramble as she pulls the microphone away from the wall, winding ear buds around her fist then stuffing them in her pocket. The door suddenly swings open revealing Hannibal.

Hannibal Lecter: "Good evening. Please come in, Miss Kimball."

Freddie Lounds smiles, picks up her bag and follows the good Doctor.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Hannibal sits in a high-backed chair opposite Freddie Lounds.

Freddie Lounds: "I've never seen a psychiatrist before and I'm unfortunately thorough. So you're one of three doctors I'm interviewing. It's more or less a bake-off."

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm very supportive of bake-offs. It's important you find someone you're comfortable with."

Freddie Lounds: "I can imagine you as my therapist, which is good. If I couldn't visualize opening up emotionally, I know it would be a problem."

Hannibal Lecter: "May I ask why now?"

Freddie Lounds: "Would it be alright if I asked you a few questions first?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Of course."

Freddie Lounds: "I love that you've written so much on social exclusion. Since that's why I'm here, I was wondering --"

Hannibal Lecter: "Are you Freddie Lounds?"

It's as though he snatched the air right out of her throat.

Freddie Lounds: "I am so embarrassed."

Hannibal Lecter: "You should be. This is unethical even for a tabloid journalist."

Freddie Lounds: "I'm a criminal justice journalist."

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm afraid I must ask for your bag."

Freddie Lounds: "What?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Your bag, please hand it over. I'd rather not take it from you. Please."

Freddie Lounds realizes from the tone of his voice that he would take the bag from her, so she does as instructed.

Hannibal Lecter: "Thank you."

He takes the bag, places it by his side.

Freddie Lounds: "I was recording our conversation."

Hannibal Lecter: "Our conversation? Yours and mine?"

Freddie Lounds: "Yes."

Hannibal Lecter: "No other conversation?"

Freddie Lounds: "No."

Hannibal Lecter: "You were very persistent about your appointment time. How did you know when Will Graham would be here?"

Freddie Lounds: "I may have also recorded your session with Will Graham."

Hannibal Lecter: "You didn't answer the question. How did you know?"

Freddie Lounds: "I can't answer that question."

Freddie Lounds and Brian Zeller, naked, post-coital in a rumple-sheeted bed.

Hannibal studies her, then pats the cushion of the seat next to him, beckoning her like a child or a pet.

Hannibal Lecter: "Come. Sit by me."

Freddie eyes Hannibal, not sure if she should bolt or do exactly what he tells her to do. She chooses the latter. Hannibal's arm is propped casually on the back of the seat, within snatching distance of Freddie's neck.

Hannibal Lecter: "Delete the conversations you recorded. Doctor-patient confidentiality works both ways."

Freddie, rattled under Hannibal's penetrative gaze, pulls her phone out of her purse, stops it recording.

Hannibal Lecter: "Delete it, please."

She deletes the file and hands her smart phone to Hannibal. He examines it, satisfied the recordings were deleted.

Hannibal Lecter: "You've been terribly rude, Miss Lounds. What's to be done about that?"

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Jack Crawford sits at the table as the good Doctor places a loin dish elegantly presented on a plate with a blood red sauce.

Hannibal Lecter: "Loin served with a Cumberland sauce of red fruits. Strawberries, raspberries, currants."

Jack Crawford: "What kind of loin?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Pork."

Hannibal takes his seat in front of his own plate of "pork."

Jack Crawford: "It's rare I get a home-cooked meal. My wife and I both work. Hard as I tried not to, I married my mother."

Hannibal Lecter: "Your mother didn't cook?"

Jack Crawford: "She cooked. I just wished she didn't. She used to make this dish she liked to call Oriental Noodles. Spaghetti, soy sauce, bouillon cubes and spam. I was a thin child."

Jack takes another bite.

Hannibal Lecter: "Next time bring your wife. I'd love to have you both for dinner."

Jack washes that last bite down with a swig of wine, then:

Jack Crawford: "I'm curious why Will went back to see you after you signed off on him. He was so adamant about not going to begin with."

Hannibal Lecter: "I lost the stick, kept the carrot."

Jack Crawford: "Insisting on a Psych Eval for a guy like Will Graham is hardly a stick."

Hannibal Lecter: "As a psychiatric professional, I feel duty-bound to point out that blackmailing somebody into therapy tends to negate positive benefits."

Jack takes a sip of wine and savors it.

Jack Crawford: "Mmmm. This wine is delicious."

Hannibal Lecter: "Piorat from Catalonia."

Jack Crawford: "Why did he go back?"

Hannibal Lecter: "A guy like Will Graham? I'm sure he recognizes the necessity of his own support structure if he's to go on supporting you in the field."

Jack Crawford: "Will Graham knows exactly what's going on in his head, which is why he doesn't want anyone in there."

Hannibal Lecter: "Are you not accustomed to broken ponies in your stable?"

Jack Crawford: "You think Will's a broken pony?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I think you think Will's a broken pony. You ever lost a pony, Jack?"

Jack Crawford: "If you're asking if I've ever lost someone in the field, yes. Why?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I want to understand why you're so delicate with Will. Because you don't trust him or because you're afraid of losing another pony?"

Jack Crawford: "I've had my Psych Eval."

Hannibal smiles warmly.

Hannibal Lecter: "Not by me. You've already told me about your mother. Why stop there?"

INT. FBI HEADQUARTERS - EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY

Brian Zeller, Jimmy Price and Will Graham hover wearing gloves, aprons, and splash shields.

Will Graham: "What has he been soaking in?"

Jimmy Price: "A highly concentrated mixture of hardwoods, shredded newspaper, and pig poop. Perfect for growing mushrooms and other fungi."

Brian Zeller: "Wasn't the mushrooms. What killed all of them was kidney failure."

Zeller covers the victim. Behind him, the other victims lie on tables of their own, each covered by a sheet. Beverly Katz enters carrying fists-full of I.V. bags.

Beverly Katz: "Dextrose in all the catheters. He probably used some kind of dialysis or peristaltic to pump fluids after the circulatory systems broke down."

Will Graham: "Force-feeding them sugar water."

Jimmy Price: "You know who loves sugar water? Mushrooms. They crave it. As much as a mushroom can crave anything."

Brian Zeller: "Recovering alcoholics crave sugar. Don't take that personally."

Jimmy Price: "I'm not recovering."

Brian Zeller: "Feed sugar to fungus in your body, the fungus makes alcohol. It's friends helping friends really."

Jimmy Price: "Is someone preying on recovering alcoholics? Other than themselves?"

Will Graham: "Alcoholics aren't the only ones with compromised endocrine systems. They all died of kidney failure? Death by diabetic ketoacidosis?"

Beverly Katz: "Did you know they were diabetics?"

Brian Zeller: "We don't know they're diabetics."

Will Graham: "They're all diabetics. He induces a coma and puts them in the ground."

Beverly loves watching Will work, barely suppressing a smile.

Beverly Katz: "How is he inducing diabetic comas?"

Will Graham: "He changes their medication. He's a doctor or a pharmacist or works somewhere in medical services."

Beverly Katz: "He buries them, feeds them sugar to keep them alive long enough for the circulatory systems to soak it up."

Jimmy Price: "So he can feed the mushrooms."

Brian Zeller: "We dug up his mushroom garden."

Will Graham: "He'll want to grow a new one."

The pills roll and turn as they funnel from their automated pill dispenser into a pill bottle. The prescription label is printed on adhesive paper that is peeled off and applied to the pill bottle, which is tossed into a paper bag, which is promptly stapled shut.

INT. PHARMACY - DAY

Your friendly neighborhood Pharmacist, an unassuming man in his 50's named Eldon Stammets, hands the stapled bag to his customer.

Eldon Stammets: "Please sign here."

The customer signs their name and moves off, prompting the next customer, an attractive woman in her 40s named Gretchen Speck, to approach the counter.

Gretchen Speck: "Picking up a prescription for Gretchen Speck."

Eldon moves to the S bin and retrieves a stapled bag.

Eldon Stammets: "Insulin?"

Gretchen Speck: "Yes."

Eldon glances at the prescription, offers:

Eldon Stammets: "Whoops. Grabbed the wrong one."

Gretchen Speck: "Uh-oh."

Eldon Stammets: "Just a moment."

Gretchen watches Eldon step around the corner and "correct" the prescription out of sight. He returns after a moment.

Eldon Stammets: "There you go."

Gretchen Speck: "Thank you."

Eldon Stammets: "Please sign here. Is this your correct home address?"

EXT. PHARMACY - DAY

A calm, ordinary Big Box Pharmacy. Despite the vehicles in the parking lot, the storefront is strangely quiet, deserted. After a moment, there's a small flurry of movement... armed, dark-clad figures creeping in swiftly and silently, moving along the outside of the building, weaving through parked cars, taking up positions.

Jack Crawford and Will Graham stride into frame as they approach the main doors of the Pharmacy like regular customers.

Jack Crawford: "She's the eighth diabetic customer of the chain to disappear after filling an insulin prescription, second from this exact location."

Will Graham: "The other seven?"

Jack Crawford: "All over the county. One pharmacist has been all over the county, too."

Will Graham: "A floater."

Jack Crawford: "Floater's floating right here. Still logged into his work station."

INT. PHARMACY - DAY

Jack enters walking confidently toward the Pharmacy counter, Will immediately behind him, as plain clothes agents herd the last customers and cashiers out the door. Jack steps behind the counter and calmly walks inside, holding his badge very clearly in front of him, instructing the six pharmacists:

Jack Crawford: "Everyone. Stop what you're doing and put your hands in the air."

The six pharmacists do as instructed, realizing there are many F.B.I. Agents pointing guns at them across the counter.

Jack Crawford: "I'm Special Agent Jack Crawford. Which one of you is Eldon Stammets?"

Pharmacist Manager: "What's happening?"

Jack Crawford: "One of your customers didn't go to work this morning after picking up a prescription here yesterday, filled by Eldon Stammets. We have reason to believe he abducted her."

Pharmacist: "Eldon was just here. Just now."

Jack signals the F.B.I. Agents and they fan out.

Will Graham: "His car still in the parking lot?"

EXT. PHARMACY - PARKING LOT - DAY

Will smashes the driver side window of Eldon's car with a crowbar. He reaches in, pops the trunk.

With an grating creak, Will lifts the trunk the rest of the way open - revealing it is completely filled with rich, dark soil. There's a fleeting recoil as Will, Jack Crawford, and Brian Zeller are hit with the stench released from the compartment. Will recovers, shoveling arms-full of dirt.

Will Graham: "She's in here!"

Will quickly uncovering an unconscious, naked Gretchen Speck, an oxygen mask over her mouth and nose.

Jack Crawford: "E.M.T.s now."

Will steps away from the trunk as the E.M.T.s move in. They watch as Gretchen Speck is loaded into the back of an ambulance by paramedics.

Jack Crawford: "We know his name. We know where he lives. We have his car. We'll have him within 24 hours."

Jimmy Price approaches Jack and Will with some trepidation.

Jimmy Price: "Jack. We just checked browser history at Stammets' work station."

Jack Crawford: "Do I want to hear this?"

Jimmy Price: "No. And yes. But mostly no."

INT. PHARMACY - WORK STATION - DAY

Jack pulls up the internet browser to reveal a full screen shot of Will standing in the forest crime scene, head hung low. The headline reads “TAKES ONE TO KNOW ONE.” Zeller, Price and Katz are gathered around the monitor with Jack.

Beverly Katz: "“The FBI isn’t just hunting psychopaths, they’re head-hunting them, too, offering competitive pay and benefits in the hopes of using one demented mind to catch an--” She goes into a lot of detail."

Jack Crawford: "Son-of-a-bitch."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal sits at his desk, Tattlecrime.com on his browser pronouncing "TAKES ONE TO KNOW ONE" over a picture of Will Graham standing in the Forest clearing, head hung low.

Hannibal Lecter: "Oh, Miss Lounds."

INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Freddie Lounds brushes her teeth as she stoops over her laptop, checking mail. There's a flurry of muffled, cautious footsteps drumming down the hall outside. She glances at the crack under her door and sees shadows gathering on the other side. Not good. Before she can react, the door is kicked open. Several Agents burst into her room, instantly on top of her.

A female agent throws Freddie on the bed and presses her knee into Freddie's back as fixes the cuffs in horrible, quick moves, then hauls Freddie to her feet until she is face-to-face with Jack Crawford, who stares silently at her. She remains cool as a cucumber under his gaze.

Freddie Lounds: "I appreciate the pageantry, Agent Crawford, but you can’t arrest me for writing an article."

Jack Crawford: "You entered a federal crime scene without permission."

Freddie Lounds: "Escorted by a detective."

Jack Crawford: "Under false pretense."

Freddie Lounds: "He should have been more thorough. Still, it's as good as permission."

Jack Crawford: "You lied to a police officer."

Freddie Lounds: "You can't arrest me for lying."

Jack studies her, then considers a different tact.

Jack Crawford: "You got all that information from a local detective?"

Brian Zeller stands outside in the hall, listening intently with a blank expression.

Freddie Lounds: "Lots of talk about your man Graham. Not to mention the rivalry of who gets the collar. A local detective looking for a pissing contest with the F.B.I. might have some insight."

Jack Crawford: "And evidently did."

Freddie Lounds: "Sure did. What is it about Graham? He your psychic? Or do you consider using a psychic desperate coping?"

Jack Crawford takes tweezers from his pocket and plucks a hair from Freddie Lounds' shoulder.

Jack Crawford: "Unfortunate timing of your article allowed a murderer to escape."

Freddie Lounds: "You're blaming my article?"

Jack Crawford: "You were in Minnesota. In the Shrike's Nest. You contaminated that crime scene. Everywhere you go, you contaminate crime scenes. That's obstructing justice. I can indict you for obstructing justice."

Freddie smiles, trying to cover her nerves with charm.

Freddie Lounds: "I'd appreciate it if you didn't."

Jack Crawford: "Don't write another word about Will Graham and I won't have to."

INT. JOHNS HOPKINS HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL’S ROOM - NIGHT

Will sits silently in his chair considering unconscious Abigail Hobbs, comatose in her hospital bed. Click-cluck-click-cluck, the haunting sound of hooves approaching. Will looks up to see a glimpse of the black stag walking past Abigail's doorway.

Will is sound asleep in his chair, feet propped up on an ottoman. There's a click-click-click-click of approaching footsteps as Alana Bloom enters the room. She watches Will sleep a brief moment, then slips a shoe off one foot, gently as to not disturb him. He doesn't stir. She slips off the other shoe, quietly putting them aside.

INT. JOHNS HOPKINS HOSPITAL - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Will steps into the empty corridor. There are no nurses at the Nurse's Station, no Doctors nor patients in the hall. A faint, eerie whisper beneath the silence, barely audible. Will stops when he sees an encroaching darkness at the end of the hall that envelopes the corridor and washes over Will like a midnight wave of deep, dreaded sleep.

INT. JOHNS HOPKINS - ABIGAIL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Will opens his eyes to see Alana Bloom sitting on the edge of Abigail's bed, laying next to her, reading softly. He realizes he's been covered with a blanket and likes it.

Will Graham: "What are you reading?"

Alana Bloom: "Flannery O'Connor. When I was Abigail's age I was obsessed. I even tried to raise peacocks because she raised peacocks, but they're really stupid birds."

Will Graham: "You could be reading to a killer."

Alana Bloom: "Innocent until guilty and all that."

Will Graham: "Am I making you nervous?"

Alana Bloom: "No, I'm making me nervous. I'm about to broach the subject of that 'Takes One to Know One' article."

Will Graham: "Oh, that. Did Jack send you?"

Alana Bloom: "I sent me."

Will Graham: "I don't think we've ever been in a room alone together. Have we?"

Alana Bloom: "I haven't noticed. Have we? Not that we're necessarily alone now. Stop trying to change the subject."

Will Graham: "Back to Jack Crawford's crime gimp."

Alana Bloom: "I couldn't believe she wrote that."

Will Graham: "It's kind of hilarious."

Alana Bloom: "Certainly creates an image. I don't need to talk about it if you don't."

Will Graham: "We can talk about or not talk about whatever you want. Honestly, I was enjoying listening to you read."

Alana allows herself a sincere smile.

Alana Bloom: "Abigail Hobbs is a success for you."

Will Graham: "She doesn't look like a success."

Alana Bloom: "Don't feel sorry for yourself because you saved this girl's life."

Will Graham: "I don't. I don't feel sorry for myself at all. I feel good."

There’s a long pregnant pause as Will soaks in the admission, relishing it for himself, questioning it.

A tarry, black liquid. It’s unrippled surface is suddenly rocked by a dollop of milk, causing a mushroom cloud of brown that dispels to the entire surface.

EXT. MOTEL - DAY

Freddie Lound's morning coffee, which she blows on to cool as she walks across the parking lot. She glances up to see Detective Pascal sitting on her car.

Detective Pascal: "I don't know where you got half that information. Wasn't from me."

Freddie Lounds: "I may have made some inferences."

Detective Pascal: "They think I told you all of it."

Freddie Lounds: "They saw you talking to me."

Detective Pascal: "You said you were someone's mother."

Freddie Lounds: "I'm sorry I got you fired."

Detective Pascal: "I wasn't fired. I was suspended."

Freddie Lounds: "They're going to fire you. Jack Crawford will make sure of it."

Detective Pascal: "You poke the hornet's nest and I'm the one who gets stung."

Freddie Lounds: "I can help you get work. Outside the force. If you want me to. I know people in private security."

Detective Pascal: "Not the first cop you got fired?"

Freddie Lounds: "I guarantee it pays better. Right now Future You is thanking me --"

Behind Pascal, Eldon the Pharmacist points a silenced pistol. The silencer hisses. Detective Pascal drops. Freddie Lounds is spattered with blood. She stands frozen but for a tremble of terror. Eldon turns his gun on Freddie.

Eldon Stammets: "I read your article."

EXT. MOTEL - DAY

A shaken Freddie Lounds is attended to by Paramedics. Her blank, blood-spattered stare barely masks the trauma as Pascal's dead body is wheeled toward an expectant Ambulance. She doesn’t even look up as Jack approaches.

Jack Crawford: "Miss Lounds?"

Freddie Lounds: "He read my article."

Jack Crawford: "Eldon Stammets just killed a cop, what stopped him from killing you."

Freddie Lounds: "It's a well-written article. He wants me to write another one."

Jack Crawford: "He wants you to write a manifesto?"

Freddie Lounds: "Where's Will Graham?"

Jack Crawford: "We have an eye witness to the murder. We don't need Will Graham."

Freddie Lounds: "That's not why I'm asking."

Jack studies her a moment, realizing, then whirls around, yelling to a subordinate:

Jack Crawford: "Find Will Graham. This was about Will?"

Freddie Lounds: "He was talking about people sharing the same properties of a fungus. Thoughts leaping from brain to brain. They mutate. They evolve."

Jack Crawford: "What does he want with Will Graham?"

Freddie Lounds: "Someone who understands him. Graham was right. Stammets is looking for connections."

Jack Crawford: "What did you tell him?"

She doesn’t respond, eyes going distant again.

Jack Crawford: "Freddie. What did you tell him about Will Graham? I need to know exactly what you said."

Freddie Lounds: "I told him about the Hobbs girl."

Jack Crawford: "What did you tell him?"

Freddie Lounds: "Everything. He wants to help Will Graham connect with Abigail Hobbs. He's going to bury her."

INT. JOHNS HOPKINS HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR - DAY

Eldon Stammets emerges from a door labeled MENS ROOM, strolling down the corridor now wearing green scrubs. He nonchalantly grabs a parked gurney in the hall, pushing it toward an elevator and disappearing inside.

Elevator doors open and instead of seeing Eldon Stammets, it's Will Graham. His phone rings as he's stepping out. He answers.

Will Graham: "Hello."

A moment as Will listens, then his expression falls. He jams his cell phone into his pocket and runs. Will sprints down the hall toward Abigail's room, navigating patients and nurses in his mad dash.

Will halts outside Abigail's hospital room door. Reaching into his trousers for his revolver, he takes a measured step into the room.

INT. JOHNS HOPKINS HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL'S ROOM - DAY

Will finds it empty. No Eldon Stammets. No Abigail Hobbs. Will's mind races as he backs into the hallway, snatching the elbow of a passing nurse.

Will Graham: "Where is she? Abigail Hobbs. The girl in this room. Where is she?"

Nurse: "They took her for tests."

Will Graham: "Who took her? Who took her?"

Nurse stammers, but Will is already running for the stairs.

INT. JOHN HOPKINS HOSPITAL - STAIRWELL - DAY

Will bounds down the stairs, several steps at a time.

INT. JOHNS HOPKINS HOSPITAL - HALLWAY - DAY

Eldon Stammets calmly pushes the gurney carrying comatose Abigail Hobbs. At the other end of the Hallway, the stairwell door suddenly opens, and a winded Will Graham rushes out. Eldon startles, moves. Will raises his gun and shoots.

BLAM!

The bullet takes out a piece of Eldon Stammets shoulder, violently propelling him backwards, his gun clattering to the floor as he reached for it. Will pulls Abigail's gurney into the hall, moving in on Eldon, kicking his gun out of reach. Will looks down at Eldon, who is in a state of shock.

Will Graham: "What were you going to do with her?"

Eldon Stammets: "We evolved from mycelium. Only reintroducing her to the concept."

Will Graham: "By burying her alive?"

Eldon Stammets: "Opisthokontum. A super kingdom of animalia and fungi together. That journalist said you understood me."

Will Graham: "I don't."

Eldon Stammets: "You would have. Walk into a field of mycelium, they know you're there. Their spores reach for you when you pass by. I know who you're reaching for. You should have let me plant her. You would have found her in a field where she could finally reach back."

Will stares at Eldon a moment as the clamor of approaching footsteps, no doubt investigating gunfire, approach, then:

Will Graham: "You should know I'm a terrible shot. I was trying to kill you."

He taps the emergency stop button and leans in the doorway as a bustle of cops, nurses and paramedics approach.

Hannibal's Voice: "When you shot Eldon Stammets... who was it that you saw?"

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND - INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - EVENING

Hannibal sits opposite Will Graham.

Will Graham: "I didn't see Hobbs."

Hannibal Lecter: "Then it's not Hobbs' ghost that's haunting you, is it? It's the inevitability of there being a man so bad that killing him felt good."

Will Graham: "Killing Hobbs felt just."

Hannibal Lecter: "Which is why you're here. To prove that sprig of zest you feel is from saving Abigail not killing her dad."

Will Graham: "I didn't feel a sprig of zest when I shot Eldon Stammets."

Hannibal Lecter: "You didn't kill Eldon Stammets."

Will Graham: "I thought about killing him. I'm still not entirely sure that wasn't my intention pulling the trigger."

Hannibal Lecter: "If your intention was to kill him, it's because you understand why he did the things he did. It's beautiful in it's own way. Giving voice to the unmentionable."

Will Graham: "I should have stuck to fixing boat motors in Louisiana."

Hannibal Lecter: "A boat engine is a machine. A predictable problem, easy to solve. You fail, there's a paddle. Where was your paddle with Hobbs?"

Will Graham: "You're supposed to be my paddle."

Hannibal Lecter: "I am. It wasn't the act of killing Hobbs that got you down, was it? Did you really feel so bad because killing him felt so good?"

Will weighs that statement, finally admitting to Hannibal:

Will Graham: "I liked killing Hobbs."

Hannibal Lecter: "Killing must feel good to God, too. He does it all the time, and are we not created in his image?"

Will Graham: "Depends who you ask."

Hannibal Lecter: "God's terrific. He dropped a church roof on thirty-four of his worshippers last Wednesday night in Texas, while they sang a hymn."

Will Graham: "Did God feel good about that?"

Hannibal Lecter: "He felt powerful."