INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL

A picture of a man in a pew appears on the screen. His tongue serves as a page marker in his Bible. Will Graham is silhouetted by the image.

Will Graham: "The Chesapeake Ripper murders in Sounders of three."

Will clicks the remote.

Will Graham: "He did his first victims in nine days. Annapolis."

Click.

Will Graham: "Essex."

Click.

Will Graham: "And Baltimore. He didn’t kill again for 18 months. Then there was another Sounder of three in as many days. All in Baltimore."

Click. Click. Click. The crime scene pictures reflect off of Will Graham’s glasses.

Will Graham: "I use the term Sounders because it refers to a small group of pigs. That’s how he sees his victims. Not as people, not as prey. Pigs."

Will turns back to the Trainees as he clicks again.

Will Graham: "Eleven months after the sixth victim there was a seventh."

Click. A picture of Jeremy Olmstead appears. He’s impaled by several tools on his workbench.

Will Graham: "Two days later, the eighth is killed in his workshop. Every tool on the pegboard where they hung was used against him. As with the previous murders, organs were removed."

Click. A picture of the Wound Man illustration from Hans von Gersdorff’s “Fieldbook of Wound Surgery.”

Will Graham: "The removal of organs and abdominal mutilations means someone with anatomical or surgical knowhow. There is a distinctive brutality."

Jack Crawford stands at the back of the entrance, watching in the dark.

Will Graham: "An FBI Trainee named Miriam Lass was investigating private medical records of all the known victims when she disappeared. She is believed to be the Ripper’s ninth."

Click. A picture of Miriam Lass.

Will Graham: "But no trace of her was found. Until recently, two years later. Her severed arm was discovered. Only because he wanted it to be."

Click. A picture of Miriam Lass’ severed arm. Jack stands soberly in the darkness, only Will aware of him.

Will Graham: "True to his established pattern, the Chesapeake Ripper has remained consistently theatrical."

INT. OPÉRA DE L'OUEST - MCCLUSTER HALL - NIGHT

All external sound is muffled by the human body, leaving only the ambient noise of the circulatory system. The twin mucus membranes of vocal chords open as an intake of air passes through them, then they abruptly close to hold the breath. The vocal chords begin to vibrate as air pressure builds beneath the larynx. As the vocal folds chop at the steady exhalation into a steady flow of sound waves, the view pulls out of the Soprano’s mouth as she portrays the noble lady Lenora from Verdi’s TROVATORE, “Tacea la notte placinda” vibrating from her vocal chords.

Hannibal Lecter sits in the audience in a dark blue tuxedo. As the outer ear’s natural curve moves into darkness, each individual sound of the performance is dialed up and down as every instrument, every voice is singled out. Darkness... then Hannibal opens his eyes, they soften and crinkle, enjoying the feast of sound around him.

Bows draw menacingly up into frame, appearing to float briefly before slashing down.

Suddenly, a man’s bare chest is freshly slashed as if by a Cellist’s bow, the flesh separates and rich blood seeps from the wound. Violins reach a fever.

Hannibal listens intently as he watches the conductor's baton carve the air with force and purpose. Simultaneously, Conductor and Hannibal (playing the “home game” from his seat) sharply part their hands. As instructed, the cymbal player prepares to crash instruments.

An exposed thoracic cavity is pulled apart, not with an ugly crack, but with a crash of cymbals. Vital organs slowly swell and pulse, struggling.

The noble lady Lenora clutches her heart as she holds her final note.

A shaking latex gloved hand wraps around the exposed heart, squeezing and palpating to no apparent effect. Blood flows unstanched through the gloved fingers as Lenora’s sustained note finally stops and applause erupts from the Opera House.

Hannibal is first to his feet applauding enthusiastically. Elsewhere in the audience, Hannibal’s patient Franklyn Froideveaux stands and applauds next to his friend Tobias Budge, who is neither standing nor applauding. Franklyn can’t pry his eyes off his Doctor in Blue.

INT. OPÉRA DE L'OUEST - MCCLUSTER HALL - LOBBY - NIGHT

Hannibal is surrounded by members of Baltimore’s Cultural Elite, holding court as the audience mingles. He is as sociable as Will Graham is reclusive, engaged in conversation with a gorgeous woman in her 50s, Mrs. Komeda, as her husband and several other patrons look on.

Mrs. Komeda: "It’s been too long since you’ve properly cooked for us, Hannibal."

Hannibal: "Come over and I will cook for you."

Hannibal notices out of the corner of his eye Franklin Froidevaux and Tobias Budge navigating the crowd toward him. He casually focuses on Mrs. Komeda as she speaks.

Mrs. Komeda: "I said properly. Means dinner and the show. Have you seen him cook? It’s an entire performance. He used to throw such exquisite dinner parties. You heard me. Used to."

Hannibal teases her with false grandiosity and a warm smile.

Hannibal: "I will again. Once inspiration strikes. I cannot force a feast. A feast must present itself."

Mr. Komeda: "It’s a dinner party, not a unicorn."

Hannibal: "But the feast is life. You put the life in your belly and you live."

The Cultural Elite are charmed. Mr. Komeda notices Franklyn and Tobias standing inside Hannibal’s peripheral vision.

Mr. Komeda: "I believe that young man is trying to get your attention."

Hannibal turns, smiles warmly without betraying their relationship, and shakes Franklyn’s hand.

Hannibal: "Hello."

Franklyn: "Hi! Nice to see you. This is my friend, Tobias."

Hannibal: "Good evening."

Mrs. Komeda: "How do you two know each other?"

Hannibal: "There should remain some mystery to my life outside the opera."

Franklyn: "I’m one of his patients."

Tackling the potential awkward moment with social aplomb, Hannibal turns the subject back to the evening at hand.

Hannibal: "Did you enjoy the performance?"

Franklyn: "I loved it. Every minute."

Hannibal: "Don’t say too much. You must leave something for us to discuss next week. Franklyn, good to see you."

Hannibal hustles off Franklyn and Tobias with a handshake.

Hannibal: "Tobias."

Hannibal shakes Tobias’s hand, politely shooing him and Franklyn away before turning back to the Cultural Elite.

Hannibal: "Who’s hungry?"

INT. B.A.U. - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Jack Crawford, briefcase in hand, wearing his coat, makes his way through the hall, distracted and haunted, but more importantly frustrated by Will’s Chesapeake Ripper Lecture. A muffled ringing of a cell phone goes initially ignored, until Jack realizes there is no one in B.A.U. to answer it.

He stops. Glances looking for the source, crossing into the morgue.

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - CONTINUOUS

The muffled ringing is slightly louder. Jack listens intently as he zeroes in on the location of the ringing. A morgue drawer. Jack opens the stainless steel door and the cadaver tray slides out revealing a severed arm holding the phone. It’s still ringing.

Jack opens his eyes.

INT. JACK CRAWFORD’S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jack’s cell phone is ringing on his night stand. He answers.

Jack Crawford: "Hello."

INT. F.B.I. C.S.I. S.U.V. - NIGHT

Will rubs the disrupted sleep out of his eyes, sitting next to Jack Crawford in the backseat, who looks like he only just rubbed the sleep out of his own eyes. Agents up front.

Jack Crawford: "The victim was found in his hotel room bathtub. He had requested two keys at check in. No one saw a second guest come or go. Abdominal mutilation and organ removal."

Will Graham: "Sounds more like an urban legend than the Chesapeake Ripper."

Jack Crawford: "The room is sealed off until you get there. You’ll have it fresh."

Will Graham: "Fresh? Fresh as a daisy?"

Jack Crawford: "Fresh enough to tell me if it’s the Ripper. Then you go back to class."

Will Graham: "You don’t want me in a classroom. You want me to wrap my head so tight around the Ripper, I won’t go back to class until he’s caught."

Jack Crawford: "It’s your bad luck to be the best."

Will Graham: "Expecting a few more bodies after this one?"

Jack Crawford: "If it’s the Chesapeake Ripper I am."

Will Graham: "Don’t let the Ripper stir you up. Reason he left you Miriam Lass’ arm is so he could poke you with it."

Jack Crawford: "Why not the rest of her?"

Will Graham: "His other victims, he wanted to humiliate in death, like a public dissection. She was different. He respected Miriam Lass."

Jack Crawford: "Probably impressed she found him."

Will Graham: "He had to kill her. I would’ve, if I were him. Just being practical."

Jack Crawford: "He could be starting another cycle."

Will Graham: "You’ve heard from the Ripper directly. If he’s killing again, he’s not going to be subtle about it. Any more phone calls, Jack?"

Jack Crawford: "No. If this is the Ripper, there will be at least two more bodies, then nothing for months, maybe years. We’ll have a window to catch him and then that window will close. The last time it closed, I lost the Ripper and I lost Miriam Lass."

INT. HOTEL - SEVENTH FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT

Will steps out of the elevator following immediately on Jack’s heels, averting his eyes from the scattered Local Police Officers lining the hallway adjacent to Room 727. Will waits outside Room 727 as Jack enters.

INT. HOTEL - ROOM 727 - NIGHT

Jack enters to find Jimmy Price dusting for fingerprints, Beverly Katz combing the bed for hair and fibers, and Brian Zeller tweezing something out of a trail of blood that runs from the blood-stained bed to the bathroom in a wake of overturned furniture -- the path of a struggle. Small flags indicate the larger pieces of tissue along the way.

Jack Crawford: "Has anyone touched the body?"

Brian Zeller: "Local police behaved themselves."

Jimmy Price: "It is fairly evident the man’s dead just by looking at him."

Beverly Katz: "I touched the body. A lot going on with that body. Surgery was performed. And then un-performed. Hi, Will."

Will waves quietly from the Hallway, which Brian ignores.

Brian Zeller: "Surgery was un-performed with bare hands. Sutures were clawed open. I did a little touching."

Jimmy Price: "Pieces of him were torn off from bed to bathroom, like bread crumbs."

INT. HOTEL - ROOM 727 - BATHROOM - NIGHT

Will and Jack stare at a man's body in the bathtub, opened from neck to pelvis, clothes (pajama bottoms, t-shirt) are ripped from the struggle. There is two or three inches of blood pooled in the tub.

Will Graham: "Surgery wasn’t performed here. Would have been a lot more blood."

Beverly Katz: "If he’s moving his victims, he could be performing the mutilations in the same transport."

Jimmy Price: "Find the car, find the killer."

Will examines the hand of the dead man, turning the wrist so he can look under the fingernails.

Will Graham: "He clawed open his own sutures."

Jack Crawford: "Somebody sew something inside of him he was trying to get out?"

Beverly Katz: "Wasn’t to get his kidney. Ripper already took it with him. Or her."

Jimmy Price: "I’ll say him."

Jack Crawford: "What did he take from his chest?"

Brian Zeller: "Tried to take the heart, but was probably interrupted. It’s intact. Traumatized, but intact."

Will studies the open chest cavity as Jack follows Zeller, Price and Katz outside and quietly shuts the door behind them leaving Will alone. Will takes a deep breath, and as he exhales...

A pendulum swings in the darkness of Will Graham’s mind. FWUM.

Will closes his eyes as the neck to pelvis wound closes, taking us to darkness. FWUM-FWUM.

A pendulum strums the darkness. FWUM.

Will takes a step backward, eyes still closed as he continues to back-walk out of the bathroom into the suite. FWUM-FWUM.

The victim's pale, corpse foot slides out of the tub onto the floor into a pool of blood that crawls up its leg. FWUM.

Will continues to back-walk to the door as the massive blood stain next to the bed shrinks and disappears. FWUM. FWUM. In the background, the body from the bathtub lies in bed. FWUM. The pendulum swings through frame and instead of seeing Mr. Murray in the bed, he sees standing in the room...

The Black Stag.

Will stops short and stares at it, approaching cautiously. FWUM. The pendulum swings through frame revealing Will and Mr. Murray tumble into a dresser, knock over a chair. FWUM.

The pendulum swings once again revealing the Black Stag. It turns and walks into the bathroom. Will follows it.

FWUM. The pendulum swings revealing Will as he tumbles into the bathtub with Mr. Murray on top of him. Will sees life fading from Mr. Murray’s eyes as he goes still. Acting quickly, Will pulls a scalpel from his bag of medical tools. He makes an incision along Mr. Murray’s chest, cracks the sternum, and spreads the ribs, taking his heart in hand.

Will Graham: "His heart seizes. I crack the sternum... spread the ribs, take his heart in my hand... Internal cardiac massage..."

Mr. Murray dies with Will wrist-deep in his chest. Will stands over the body in the tub, breathing deeply. The Black Stag stands in the doorway behind him approaching. Will opens his eyes and he’s standing alone in the room over the dead man in the bathtub.

INT. HOTEL - ROOM 727 - BATHROOM - NIGHT

Will sits on the toilet next to the empty bathtub with the Man’s Body opened from neck to pelvis. Jack is inside the room, Zeller, Price and Katz linger in the suite.

Brian Zeller: "It’s the Chesapeake Ripper."

Will Graham: "It’s not the Ripper."

Brian Zeller: "There are too many similarities."

Will Graham: "There aren’t enough."

Brian Zeller: "Knife wounds are cuts, not stabs. Anatomical knowledge, dissecting skills. Mutilation, organ removal. Victim’s in clothes, on display. Can I say etcetera or should I go on? 22 signature components all attributable to the same killer."

Will Graham: "22 possible signature components."

Brian Zeller: "It’s the Ripper."

Without offense or even looking as he does it, Will closes the bathroom door on Zeller -- the last thing he does see is Beverly smiling at his abrupt boldness.

Jack Crawford: "Are you sure?"

Will Graham: "More or less."

Jack Crawford: "Why are you sure?"

Will Graham: "The Ripper left a victim in a church pew using his tongue as a page marker in the Bible he was holding. This isn’t that. This is a medical student or a trainee. Someone trying to make an extra buck on a back-alley surgery and it went bad. Actively bad."

Jack takes a deep breath, exhales, disappointed.

Will Graham: "You’ll catch the Ripper eventually."

Jack Crawford: "I want to catch him now. And when I do, you won’t have a chance to shoot him. Because I’m going to."

Will Graham: "You can’t just jack up the law and get underneath it."

Jack Crawford: "Can’t I? How do you see the Ripper, Will?"

Will Graham: "I see him as one of those pitiful things sometimes born in hospitals. They feed it, keep it warm, yet they don’t put it on the machines. They let it die. But he doesn’t die. He looks normal... and nobody can tell what he is."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - DAY

Hannibal opens the door.

Hannibal: "Good morning. Please come in."

Franklyn stands sheepishly and awkward, waiting.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

An inscrutable Hannibal sits across from Franklyn, who sits silently for an uncomfortably long moment.

Hannibal: "Would you like to discuss our chance encounter?"

Franklyn: "Wasn’t all together chance. I kinda thought you’d be there, which isn’t why I was there. I was there because I like that sort of thing. Just occurred to me you might, too."

Hannibal: "In fact, I do."

Franklyn: "I was trying to get your attention. Stand within your peripheral vision but not directly in front of you."

Hannibal: "I was aware of that."

Franklyn: "I knew you were aware, even though you pretended that you weren’t. It felt like you were rejecting me."

Hannibal offers a small, warm smile.

Hannibal: "It would be unethical to approach a patient or acknowledge in any way our relationship outside this room until that patient gives consent."

Franklyn: "I don’t really know who you are outside this room."

Hannibal: "I’m your psychiatrist."

Franklyn: "I feel rejected again."

Hannibal: "Why do you suppose that is?"

Franklyn: "Cause I want you to be my friend."

Hannibal: "Of course you do. I have intimate knowledge of you."

Franklyn: "And you like the same things I do. I think we’d be good friends. It makes me sad I have to pay you."

Hannibal attempts to hone the topic of conversation.

Hannibal: "Tell me about Tobias."

Franklyn: "Tobias is my best friend, but I am not Tobias’s best friend. He has cancelled on me so many times. He almost didn’t come to the show. But he sure took an active interest in my active interest in you."

Hannibal: "Have you put Tobias on a pedestal?"

Franklyn: "Yes and he saw a higher pedestal."

Hannibal: "I am a source of stability and clarity, Franklyn, not your friend."

Franklyn: "I’m a great friend. I was listening to Michael Jackson last night and I burst into tears. My eyes are burning right now even talking about it. You know what I think makes me the most sad about him dying? I will never meet him. I feel if I had been his friend, I could have saved him from himself."

Hannibal: "In this Michael Jackson fantasy, how is your friendship returned?"

Franklyn: "I just get to touch greatness."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - AFTERNOON

The door opens and Hannibal speaks to his next patient.

Hannibal: "Good afternoon. Please come in."

Bedelia Du Maurier, a woman in her 60’s, waits.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - AFTERNOON

Hannibal sits opposite Bedelia, who doesn’t mince words.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "This always goes better if I’m perfectly honest with you."

Hannibal: "What would be the point otherwise."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Well, one of us has to be honest."

Hannibal: "I’m honest."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Not perfectly."

Hannibal: "As honest as anyone."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Not really. I have conversations with a version of you and hope the actual you gets what he needs."

Hannibal: "A version of me?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Naturally, I respect its meticulous construction, but you are wearing a very well tailored person suit."

Hannibal: "Do you refer to me as Person Suit with your psychiatrist friends?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I don’t discuss patients with my psychiatrist friends, particularly since I only have one patient who chose to ignore my retirement."

Hannibal: "A patient who wears a Person Suit."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I can still see the shape of you, but you’re elegantly obstructed. So really, it’s less of a person suit and more of a human veil."

Hannibal: "I prefer we call it a human shield."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I’m sure you do. You’re a complicated man, Hannibal. I imagine that must be lonely."

Hannibal: "I have friends. And the opportunities for friends."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "On the other side of the veil."

Hannibal: "You and I are friendly."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Yes, and when your hour is up I expect you to pour me a glass of wine, nevertheless I’ll be drinking it on this side of the veil."

Hannibal: "Why do you bother?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I see enough of you to see the truth of you. And I like you."

Hannibal smiles, liking her, too.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Red or white."

Hannibal: "I think something pink, don’t you?"

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - NIGHT

The door opens and Hannibal speaks to his next patient.

Hannibal: "Good evening. Please come in."

Will Graham sits inscrutably, waiting.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Hannibal sits opposite Will.

Will Graham: "Have you been drinking?"

Hannibal: "I had a glass of wine with my last appointment."

Will Graham: "You drank with a patient?"

Hannibal: "She drank with a patient. I have an unconventional psychiatrist."

Will Graham: "We have that in common."

Hannibal: "Am I your psychiatrist or are we simply having conversations?"

Will Graham: "Yes, I think is the answer to that."

Hannibal: "Then having a glass of wine before seeing a patient, I assure you, is very conventional. Particularly for evening appointments."

Will Graham: "How long have you been seeing a psychiatrist?"

Hannibal: "Since I chose to be a psychiatrist. What’s good for the goose..."

Will considers that a moment, then:

Will Graham: "So these are just conversations."

Hannibal: "With your friend, the psychiatrist. We do have a higher level of intimacy than the common Doctor Patient relationship. Almost as though we have a daughter together."

Will Graham: "I don’t have a lot of friends."

Hannibal: "Having a better understanding of why people do what they do doesn’t make it any easier to socialize."

Will Graham: "Is it easy for you?"

Hannibal: "I cope."

Hannibal pours two glasses of wine, hands one to Will.

Hannibal: "Chesapeake Ripper has struck again."

Will Graham: "It’s not the same guy."

Hannibal: "The victims were all brutalized. What was the brutalization hiding?"

Will Graham: "Careful, surgical removal and preservation of vital organs."

Hannibal: "Valuable organs."

Will Graham: "Organ harvesters?"

Hannibal: "Jack Crawford’s looking for a serial killer he can’t seem to catch. It’s a brilliant diversion."

Hannibal’s fingers walk through the Rolodex business cards until they find one Andrew Caldwell, Independent Medical Examiner. He plucks it out.

Hannibal’s fingers find a recipe card in his file and pluck it out as well.

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Hannibal considers the recipe, pleased with his selection.

EXT. DESOLATE ROAD - NIGHT

A sedan chugs in fits and starts, rattling and clunking as it finally dies, coasting to the side of the road.

Andrew Caldwell heaves an annoyed sigh as he attempts to re-start his car engine to absolutely no avail.

Andrew Caldwell gets out of his car and looks underneath. His punctured gas tank is dripping the last drops of fuel. He stands, kicks his car, screaming at the night. Then a pair of headlights pierce the dark as they approach. The mystery car slows to a stop, pulling in behind Andrew Caldwell’s stalled vehicle. After a moment, Hannibal steps out.

Hannibal: "Do you need help?"

Andrew Caldwell: "I must’ve hit a rock or something. Gouged my gas tank. Have we met before?"

INT. BUS - EARLY MORNING

Lights flicker on outside the bus as the first shift of drivers are reporting for duty. A Bus Driver climbs up the stairs and stops short when she sees someone on board.

The silhouette of a man sits in the back seat. Only the silhouette of his legs are on one side of the aisle, and the silhouette of his head and shoulders is on the other. Strung across the aisle is a thick rope of intestine.

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - KITCHEN - DAY

The freezer opens, a cool fog spilling out. Hannibal places a carefully preserved heart and kidneys inside and shuts the freezer door taking us to black...

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY

Andrew Caldwell under a sheet in two parts rolls out of the freezer, next to Jason Murray, the man from the hotel room. Beverly Katz and Brian Zeller hover over the morgue drawer as Jimmy Price wheels out Jason Murray from his own freezer. Will enters. Zeller doesn’t give him a chance to say hello.

Brian Zeller: "You slammed that door in my face."

Will Graham: "It was more of a gentle swing."

Jimmy Price: "It actually was fairly gentle."

Brian Zeller shoots them both a look before indicating the two halves of Andrew Caldwell.

Brian Zeller: "Glad you’re here. Not only did the Ripper take his kidneys..."

Hannibal slices the kidneys with a blade.

Brian Zeller: "...he took his heart..."

Hannibal removes the membrane around the muscle of the heart.

Brian Zeller: "...which he wanted to do in the hotel but was interrupted before he could."

Will Graham: "Ripper wasn’t in the hotel. Someone else was."

Brian Zeller: "You still think he was ripping that heart out to save a life?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

Beverly studies the crime scene photo of Andrew Caldwell, sitting across the aisle from himself.

Beverly Katz: "The Ripper painted this picture, for sure. In big, broad strokes."

Will Graham: "Could both victims’ organs have been harvested for transplant?"

Jimmy Price: "Could put the organs on a ventilator long enough to coordinate the donation."

Brian Zeller: "In the hotel both the victim’s abdominal aorta and inferior vena cava -- the kidney’s in-and-out for blood, were entirely removed."

Beverly Katz: "They’re like USB cables. You keep them intact for an easy reconnect."

Brian Zeller: "Did a lot of damage taking it out, probably why he needed a new one."

Will Graham: "Was Mr. Caldwell’s heart and kidney disconnected for easy reconnects?"

Brian Zeller: "Yup."

Will Graham: "We should talk to people who were on organ donor lists then dropped off without getting an organ."

Jimmy Price: "Or dying."

Will Graham: "The other Ripper victims? Organs and their USB cables missing?"

Brian Zeller: "Some are inconclusive because of the degree of mutilation, but yeah, that’s the way of the Ripper rips."

Beverly Katz: "Two different killers, same agenda?"

Jimmy Price: "Is the organ harvester disguising his work as the crimes of a serial killer or is the serial killer disguising his work as the crimes of an organ harvester?"

Will Graham: "The Chesapeake Ripper wants to perform. Every brutal choice has elegance, grace. His mutilations hide the true nature of his crimes."

A blade quickly slices into a blood red tomato, quickly and decoratively carves it into a semi-blooming rose.

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Hannibal places the rose/tomato in the sizzling pan with eleven others, a simmering fragrant blossom that loses its petals in one smooth whisk of the wooden spoon. Alana is dicing onions, not quite as handy as Hannibal with her knife skills, but skilled nonetheless.

Hannibal: "I’ve been unspeakably rude. I haven’t offered you a drink."

He moves to the refrigerator to retrieve a beverage.

Alana Bloom: "I appreciate beer more than wine."

Hannibal: "It’s not what you appreciate. It’s that you appreciate. A compromise. Beer brewed in a wine barrel. Two years. I bottled it myself."

A swig, then she swishes the beer briefly before swallowing.

Alana Bloom: "A Cabernet Sauvignon wine barrel?"

Hannibal: "I love your pallet."

Alana Bloom: "I love your beer. I taste oak. What else do I taste in there?"

Hannibal: "I will only answer yes or no."

Alana Bloom: "Serving this at your dinner party?"

Hannibal: "No. This is your reserve."

Alana Bloom: "My own private reserve? Thank you."

Hannibal: "In exchange for Sous-Chef services. I’m curious about something. Are you purposefully avoiding the subject of Will Graham?"

Alana Bloom: "Absolutely."

Hannibal: "Not on my account, I hope. I’m happy to get your perspective."

Alana Bloom: "It’s on Jack Crawford’s account. I don’t want information about Will I shouldn’t have as his friend. It’s not even about Will. Jacob Hobbs was a trial run. Jack’s obsessed with the Chesapeake Ripper and he’s grooming Will to catch him."

Hannibal: "And I sincerely hope he does. Did Jack ask you to profile the Ripper?"

Alana Bloom: "Not since I consulted on the case with Miriam before she disappeared."

Hannibal: "Ah. Crawford’s trainee. Very sad."

Alana Bloom: "You had me examining Ph.D. candidates that week."

Hannibal: "I’m grateful you were examining Ph.D. students and not the Ripper. You realize those candidates thought we were having an affair. Why didn’t we?"

Alana Bloom: "You were already having an affair. Will does that, too, you know."

Hannibal: "What? Have affairs?"

Alana Bloom: "Flirtatiously change the subject. You have that pathology in common."

Hannibal: "Or we just have you in common. I recall even before I met Will Graham, you never spoke about him."

Alana Bloom: "Probably because I just want everybody to leave him alone."

INT. B.A.U. - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Empty. After hours. The door opens and Jack enters. He takes in the silence as his eyes drift to the morgue drawers. There’s a body under a sheet in the background.

Jack focuses on the drawer from his dream. The same drawer that contained Miriam's arm. In his mind, the distant sound of her ringing cell phone filters up through the cracks in his subconscious, then just as quickly, fades away into the hum of the air conditioning.

Jack turns back around, walks purposefully across the room, toward the specific drawer that contained Miriam's arm. He pulls the drawer open. He glances inside to see the drawer is empty.

The room darkens behind him, the body under the sheet sits up, the sheet sliding to the floor as the Body Stands. It is Will Graham. Corpse gray with an autopsy Y-incision stitched into his chest, Will is not only dead, but missing the same arm as Miriam. Jack turns to see... Will is gone.

The light levels are normal. It was the theater of Jack’s mind telling us his fears. He closes the morgue drawer.

Hannibal’s fingers walk through business cards until they find one Michelle Vocalson, Customer Service. Hannibal picks a recipe card.

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Hannibal plucks a recipe card out of his recipe file, pleased with his selection.

Hannibal slices into a carefully preserved heart and kidneys inside and shuts the freezer door taking us to black...

Hannibal’s fingers walk through the business cards until they find one Darrell Ledgerwood, General Manager. Hannibal’s finger walk through the recipes until find a card.

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Hannibal plucks the recipe card out of the file.

Hannibal slices a carefully preserved liver and lungs.

Hannibal’s fingers walk through the recipe/business cards until they find one Christopher Ward, IT Consultant.

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Hannibal plucks Christopher Ward’s business card.

The freezer opens, a cool fog spilling out. Hannibal places a carefully preserved stomach, pancreas, liver and spleen inside and shuts the freezer door.

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - MORNING

Jack Crawford’s anger and frustration barely contained. Camera pulls back over the bodies displayed on two open morgue drawers to find three more bodies on gurneys. Jimmy Price, Brian Zeller and Will Graham studying corpses.

Jimmy Price: "They’re all missing different organs. We were looking at waiting lists for a heart or kidney. Now..."

Hannibal prepares kidneys, hearts, livers, stomachs, pancreases and lungs.

Jimmy Price's Voice: "We’ve got kidneys, hearts, livers, stomachs, pancreases, lungs."

Jimmy Price: "One of them is missing a spleen. Who the hell gets a spleen transplant?"

A spleen rests on top of the blender blades until they whirl.

Brian Zeller: "They graft on a little extra spleen cause of increased risk of sepsis."

Jimmy Price: "It was rhetorical."

Will Graham: "Intestines were the only thing missing from this body."

Brian Zeller: "So either there’s someone out there with Crohn’s disease and short bowels or Ripper’s making sausage."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - KITCHEN - DAY

Hannibal hand cranks the sausage maker, grinding the organ meats into the intestine casing and indeed making sausage.

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY

Jack Crawford: "He’s selling the organs to someone."

Brian Zeller: "We don’t even know if these organs are being transplanted in the U.S. They could be exported to China."

Jimmy Price: "Chinese have a cultural taboo that restricts voluntary organ donation. You got to die with all your parts or you dishonor mom and dad."

Brian Zeller: "Killing somebody else for parts doesn’t break that taboo."

Jimmy Price: "I know. I was agreeing with you."

Jack stares at Zeller and Price and the banter dies quick.

Jack Crawford: "How many killers?"

Will Graham: "Two. Possibly three."

Jack Crawford: "And you’re confident one of them is the Chesapeake Ripper?"

Will Graham: "At least one of them."

Jack Crawford: "Are they working together?"

Will Graham: "I don’t know."

Jack Crawford: "Window’s closing, Will. How is he choosing his victims?"

Will Graham: "He’s met all of them before. Only way he could tissue type them."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - DAY

Hannibal opens the door and speaks to Franklyn.

Hannibal: "Good morning. Please come in."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

An inscrutable Hannibal sits across from Franklyn.

Franklyn: "I discovered we’re Cheese-Folk. I saw you shopping for cheese. I didn’t say hello because you seemed so uncomfortable last time I did."

Hannibal: "This city is very small."

Franklyn: "Jose’s has the best selection of artisanal cheeses in Baltimore, city or county. Cheese is a passion. Ever hear of Tyromancy?"

Hannibal: "Divination by cheese."

Franklyn: "It was my gateway to cheese. A magic 8 ball you get to eat. Tobias doesn’t eat dairy."

Hannibal considers that a moment, then asks:

Hannibal: "Do you desire Tobias sexually?"

Franklyn: "No. God, no. And I’m not being defensive. I was in a Fraternity. I tried things. Just not my brand."

Hannibal: "You care deeply about Tobias despite differences. He’s your best friend, but you’re not his."

Franklyn: "It’s sad when you say it like that."

Hannibal: "You often worry about being alone?"

Franklyn: "I worry about hurting. Being alone has a dull ache to it, doesn’t it?"

Hannibal: "It can."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal enters to greet his patient, but no one is there.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Dr. Lecter sits at his desk, scribbling in a patient journal, catching up on notes from the last session. He glances at his appointment book, which has Will Graham scheduled for a 6:30 appointment -- which he evidently has missed. Hannibal considers where Will might be.

EXT. FIELD - DREAMSCAPE - NIGHT

Will and Abigail sit at an unseen picnic table under a starless night. The table they’re sitting at isn’t a table at all, but the body of the young girl seen in "Amuse-Bouche", mounted like a table top on the severed head of a trophy stag.

Abigail: "Dad..."

Will Graham: "Yes..."

A distant whispering from the heavy sky.

Abigail: "There’s someone else here."

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL - NIGHT

Will is sitting alone at a table covered in crime scene photos. Hannibal enters frame, approaching Will.

Hannibal: "Will?"

Will blinks and glances up to see Hannibal, who smiles.

Hannibal: "I’ve a 24-hour cancellation policy."

Will Graham: "What time is it?"

Hannibal: "Nearly 8 o’clock."

Will Graham: "I’m sorry."

Hannibal: "No apology necessary."

Will Graham: "I must have fallen asleep. Was I sleepwalking?"

Hannibal: "You weren’t present. Your eyes were open, staring into middle-distance."

Will Graham: "I felt like I was asleep. I need to stop sleeping altogether. Best way to avoid bad dreams."

Hannibal glances at the crime scene photos on the desk.

Hannibal: "I can see why you have bad dreams."

Will Graham: "What do you see, Doctor?"

Hannibal: "Sum up the Ripper in so many words? Words are living things. They have personality, point of view, agenda."

Will Graham: "They’re pack hunters."

Hannibal: "Displaying one’s enemy after death has its appeal in many cultures."

Will Graham: "These aren’t the Ripper’s enemies. These are pests he’s swatted."

Hannibal: "The reward for their cruelty?"

Will Graham: "He’s not bothered by cruelty. The reward is for undignified behavior. These dissections are to disgrace them. It’s a public shaming."

Hannibal: "Takes their organs away because in his mind they don’t deserve them?"

Will Graham: "In some way."

Hannibal picks up a picture of Miriam Lass.

Hannibal: "Jack Crawford’s trainee?"

Will Graham: "She’s not like the other victims. The Chesapeake Ripper had no reason to humiliate Miriam Lass."

Hannibal: "Seems to me, he was humiliating someone when he cut off her arm."

Will Graham: "He was humiliating Jack Crawford."

INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORD’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Beverly Katz leans across Jack Crawford to his keyboard. Jack rolls clear as Beverly takes the keyboard and works.

Beverly Katz: "I’ve been looking for the kill truck. A van or S.U.V. but it was a whole lot easier than that."

Beverly crouches as she calls up the F.B.I.’s VICAP system, she chooses a folder and clicks. A few more clicks and the monitor screen fills with a fisheye lens surveillance video of ambulances and fire engines outside of an upscale hotel.

Jack Crawford: "What am I looking at?"

Beverly Katz: "Security camera off an ATM machine across from the hotel."

Jack Crawford: "Kill truck?"

Beverly Katz: "It’s a private ambulance."

Jack Crawford: "The city works with a dozen private ambulance companies."

Beverly Katz: "Including Medi-Now. But not as a first responder. A first responder driving away from the emergency."

Jack gets out of his chair and offers it to Beverly.

Jack Crawford: "Take a seat. You’ve earned it."

Beverly smiles and sits, clicking again. The surveillance video zooms in capturing the Medi-Now ambulance mid-getaway.

Beverly Katz: "Ambulance would be a smart place to perform surgery. If the cops show up, blend in and drive away."

Jack Crawford: "Where’s Will Graham?"

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL - NIGHT

Jack Crawford follows into Will’s classroom to find him mid-conversation with Hannibal.

Jack Crawford: "Dr. Lecter. What a nice surprise. We have a lead on the Ripper. Care to help us catch the Ripper?"

Hannibal: "How could I refuse?"

INT. MEDI-NOW AMBULANCE GARAGE - DAY

Several bays are occupied by ambulances in various stages of repair. Jack Crawford and Beverly flank a 40-something Garage Manager as they move through the garage. Hannibal and Will Graham follow close behind, listening intently.

Garage Manager: "That ambulance isn’t in rotation. It hasn’t been out of the shed."

Jack Crawford: "Surveillance footage says she has."

Garage Manager: "Nobody signed her out. My road sheet has her down for repairs."

Jack Crawford: "Who signed her in for repairs?"

He flips a page on the clip board.

Garage Manager: "Devon Silvestri. He’s one of our part time drivers."

Will Graham: "Does he want to be a doctor?"

Garage Manager: "He’s taking the MCATs."

They finally arrive at an empty ambulance bay.

Jack Crawford: "Mister Silvestri working today?"

Garage Manager: "He’s not on the schedule."

Will quietly mentions to Jack and Beverly as Hannibal eavesdrops:

Will Graham: "If he’s not working with the Ripper, he still needs a kidney."

Beverly turns to Garage Manager, pelting him with questions.

Beverly Katz: "Is there G.P.S. on that ambulance?"

Garage Manager: "Mmm-hmm."

Beverly Katz: "Encrypted messaging or remote tracking?"

Garage Manager: "We can’t afford that kind of hardware. We use consumer grade."

Beverly Katz: "Digital trunk system."

Garage Manager: "Yeah."

Beverly Katz: "Jack, if the ambulance radio is on, I can use a DF sweep to find it."

Hannibal and Will exchange a glance, impressed.

Hannibal: "This is very educational."

EXT. T.B.D. LOCATION - NIGHT

The missing ambulance sits quietly in isolation. Although the cab is dark, a light burns brightly in the back windows.

A circle of F.B.I. Agents silently tightens around the Ambulance. Several F.B.I. S.U.V.s slowly roll up behind the Agents. Jack Crawford enters frame with a shotgun. An F.B.I. Agent moves forward with a crowbar tool, ready to force the Ambulance doors open on Jack’s signal. Jack gives the signal.

INT. AMBULANCE - NIGHT

Devon Silvestri, a nervous man in his mid-to-late 20s, is mid-surgery. A patient/victim is face down on the make-shift operating table, Devon Silvestri’s hands inside him. The ambulance doors behind him spring open to reveal Jack Crawford pointing his shotgun directly at him.

Jack Crawford: "Show me your hands."

Devon Silvestri: "I can’t."

Jack Crawford: "Show me your hands."

Devon Silvestri: "He’ll die."

Jack quickly assesses that Devon is mid-surgery, calling out:

Jack Crawford: "Dr. Lecter."

Hannibal, Will and Beverly Katz emerge from the F.B.I. S.U.V.s. Hannibal sprints ahead hearing his name. Without hesitation, Hannibal climbs inside the Ambulance.

Hannibal: "He was removing the kidney. Poorly. I can re-attach it."

Jack Crawford: "Do it."

Hannibal sticks his hands into the patient/victim’s back, taking the wheel, as it were, working quickly.

Jack Crawford: "Do you have it?"

Hannibal: "I’ve got it."

Jack Crawford: "Silvestri, show me your hands."

Devon Silvestri raises his bloody, gloved hands, stepping away from his patient/victim, giving Hannibal room.

Jack Crawford: "Step out of the vehicle. On the ground. Hands behind your head."

The F.B.I. Agents swarm Devon Silvestri, searching him, cuffing him and hauling him violently to his feet. Will Graham watches Hannibal perform impromptu surgery to save the patient/victim’s life.

A kitchen centrifuge is filled with blood extract from a living creature. A switch click sends the blood whirling, a crimson tornado.

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Three sous-chefs and two servers work at a steady clip throughout the cooking space as Hannibal mans the Centrifuge.

Hannibal: "I have a butcher who carries sow’s blood. Centrifugate, separate the matter from the water. Creates a transparent liquid. Serve with tomatoes in suspension. Everybody will love the sweet taste. Are you sure you can’t stay?"

Hannibal is speaking to Will Graham, still wearing his coat but carrying a nice bottle of wine.

Will Graham: "I don’t think I’d be good company."

Hannibal: "I disagree. But before you go, what came of Mr. Silvestri’s donor?"

Will Graham: "You saved his life."

Hannibal: "Been a long time since I used a scalpel on anything but a pencil."

Will considers that briefly, then asks:

Will Graham: "Why did you stop being a surgeon?"

Hannibal: "I killed someone. More accurately, I couldn’t save someone. But it felt like killing them."

Will Graham: "You were an Emergency Room surgeon. It has to happen from time to time."

Hannibal: "It happened one time too many. I transferred my passion for anatomy into the culinary arts. I fix minds instead of bodies and no one’s died as a result of my therapy."

Will Graham: "I should go. I’ve got a date with the Chesapeake Ripper."

Hannibal: "Or is it Rippers?"

Will Graham: "Devon Silvestri was harvesting organs but not with the Chesapeake Ripper. No connection between them."

Hannibal: "Jack must be devastated."

Will considers that, then:

Will Graham: "Enjoy the wine."

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - JACK CRAWFORD’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Jack Crawford studies the crime wall featuring the Chesapeake Ripper’s handiwork.

INT. B.A.U. - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Jack Crawford, briefcase in hand, walks through the corridor, not so much as a glance at the Morgue.

Mrs. Komeda applauds elegantly, yet enthusiastically.

Mrs. Komeda: "Bravo."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal stands at the head of his table raising a glass of wine as a magnificent feast is revealed. 10 guests, including Mr. and Mrs. Komeda, applaud at the table. Alana Bloom is among those applauding their gracious host. Hannibal raises a hand to cease the applause.

Hannibal: "Before we begin, you must all be warned: Nothing here is vegetarian."