BALTIMORE, MARYLAND - INT. HANNIBAL LECTER’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Will Graham sits opposite Hannibal Lecter, mid-therapy.

Will Graham: "I feel my nerves clicking like roller coaster cogs pulling up to the inevitable long plunge."

Hannibal Lecter: "Quick sounds. Quickly ended."

Will Graham: "Abigail ended Nicholas Boyle like a burst balloon. She took a life."

Hannibal Lecter: "You’ve taken a life."

Will Graham: "So have you."

Hannibal Lecter: "You’re grieving, Will. Not for the life you have taken, but for the life that was taken from you. If Abigail could have started over, left the horror of her father behind, so could’ve you. You could untangle yourself from the madness and the murder, clear your mind."

Will Graham: "My mind has never been clear."

Hannibal Lecter: "And now you fear it never will."

Will Graham: "We lied for her."

Hannibal Lecter: "We both know the unreality of taking a life, of people who die when we have no other choice. We know in those moments they’re not flesh, but light and air and color."

Will Graham: "Isn’t that what it is to be alive."

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you feel alive, Will?"

Will Graham: "I feel like I’m fading."

Hannibal Lecter: "Have you experienced any further loss of time... or hallucinations?"

A slow, quiet nod.

Hannibal Lecter: "I’d like you to draw a clock face. Numbered. Large hand indicating the hour, small hand the minute."

Will Graham: "Why?"

Hannibal Lecter: "An exercise. Nothing more. I want you to remember a present moment. The now. Often as you can, think of where you are and when."

Will Graham: "This feels like you’re tying mittens to my coat sleeves."

Hannibal Lecter: "Indulge me."

Hannibal hands Will a notebook and pen. Will quickly draws a circle, numbers, with the clock hands indicating the time is just after 7:15 PM. From Will’s perspective, it is a normal clock.

Hannibal Lecter: "Think of the time. Think of where you are. Think of who you are."

Will Graham: "It’s 7:16 PM. I’m in Baltimore, Maryland. My name is Will Graham."

Hannibal Lecter: "A simple reminder. A handle to reality for you to hold onto."

The clock Will Graham has drawn is a circle with all of the numbers and hands stacked on one side. The other side of the circle is completely empty. The crowded numbers are Dali-esque. This is not a normal clock. Something is wrong with Will.

Hannibal Lecter: "And know you are alive."

GREENWOOD, DELAWARE - EXT. DENSE WOODS - NIGHT

A lonely house sits far from the main road, far from the hustle and bustle of city life. A garden gnome made of graying cement, its face and hands lifted skyward, stands among the bramble. Half its smiling face is missing. The other half is streaked with filth and dirt.

Beth LeBeau eases out of her car. She is in her 30s, with natural, easy beauty. She walks toward her front door, lamps strung in the towering pine trees providing a spooky back-light to the surrounding woods. She glances at the garden shed at the end of the driveway, its doors closed against the weather.

It is a ramshackle turn-of-the-century Victorian. Beth slogs the remaining steps to the door and takes out the key.

INT. WOODED HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Beth pours birdseed into a small container in a canary cage, whistling as she invites the bird to do the same. The canary sings.

EXT. WOODED HOUSE - BACKYARD - NIGHT

In the utter blackness, rain begins to spatter through the now open doors of the weathered garden shed.

INT. WOODED HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

The house is comfy, the bedroom decorated with equestrian mementoes and photos of Beth’s friends and family. Beth enters dressed for bed, snuggles under the covers as the wind and rain create havoc outside. Drowsy, her fingers reach for the switch on the bedside lamp. She clicks it off.

Blackness envelopes the room. A small thud from up above. Beth turns on the lamp. She stares up at the ceiling.

Drip, drip, drip. Small pools of water seep through the planked ceiling. A series of wet pools form in haphazard order. One after another. Almost like footsteps.

Beth yanks off the covers. She reaches into her bedside table to retrieve a flashlight.

INT. WOODED HOUSE - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Beth reaches for a small cord that dangles from the ceiling. The ceiling ladder swings down. Beth manages to navigate the steps with flashlight in hand. The sound of swirling wind floats down from above, a sudden blast of cold air. She climbs the attic ladder.

INT. WOODED HOUSE - ATTIC - NIGHT

The flashlight beam illumines dusty boxes and broken furniture, casting strange shadows as Beth moves stealthily through the attic, eyes keen, flashlight swiveling. She shivers against the cold.

Then she understands why. A portion of the roof has collapsed inward under the weight of snow. Snow and water commingle on the attic floor, presumably the source of the strange “water pools” on her bedroom ceiling.

Through the hole, footprints in the snow dart across the roof.

Beth staples a tarp over the entrance of the hole in the roof with a staple gun. She strategically places empty pails beneath the leaking roof. For the moment, problem solved. Time for bed.

INT. WOODED HOUSE - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Beth climbs back down, closes the attic door.

INT. WOODED HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Beth enters from the hall with her flashlight. She freezes in place. In a lazy path from the doorway to her bed are more pools of water. Her shoulders slump.

The “wet pools” are amorphous puddles until the final one before her bed. A wet human footprint.

Beth stares at the footprint. Weird. Maybe even a bit scary. But the bed is empty. And a woman who lives alone in the woods doesn’t scare easy. She follows the trail of footprint shaped puddles of water to the bed. She moves closer, closer.

SNATCH.

A gnarled hand from under the bed grabs Beth’s leg, yanking her to the floor. She screams as she’s pulled into the darkness under the bed; but the scream turns to a wet gurgle as blood sprays like a Chinese fan across the floor.

MOSSY CREEK, VIRGINIA - EXT. MOSSY CREEK - DAY

Will Graham stands waist-deep in the creek, wearing waders and a fly vest. His rod, reel, line and leader are in hand. He reels in his line and comes up with nothing. Will studies the water like a seasoned pro, searching for fish bubbles and seams between fast and slow currents. He “hunts” for his prey rather than cast away blindly.

Underwater, a rainbow trout lunges for the lure.

Will Graham deftly plays his fish. Rod tip up, he doesn’t muscle the fish but allows him to run till he tires. Despite the struggle, Will is in repose: one could even say at peace. Will Graham allows the fish to run, then reels in, lets the fish run again, reels again. He grabs a fishing net from his vest and scoops the fish into the net.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY

Will unloads his fishing supplies from the car, walking to the front door carrying several fish on a chain of hooks. A successful day.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Will has the rainbow trout inverted on a plank covered with newspaper. Beside him is a cooler with ice. His gutting knife splits the fish from the base to gills. As fish blood seeps from the stroke, it quickly blooms into an enormous puddle filling the frame. In it, Will's reflection stares back.

INT. WOODED HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

The ceiling drips. Will is on his hands and knees in a pool of blood as it blooms into an enormous puddle spanning across a hardwood floor. It spans from under the bed to the center of the room, where it pools in a ghastly crimson circle.

Will is kneeling. The fish is gone, as is the fisherman’s knife. He now holds a farrier's hoof knife in one hand, and his other hand is holding down Beth LeBeau, who stares at him through a sheen of crimson. She has a Glasgow Smile -- a jagged slash from the corners of her mouth drawn all the way to her ears. She chokes and sputters, her mouth and throat full of blood from her facial wounds, drowning on her own body fluid.

Will’s heartbeat pounds loud as Beth LeBeau finally dies under him.

Where is he? Did he do this? Horror and confusion on his face. Is it possible? Could he have killed this woman in some sort of trance? Will has no memory of coming to this crime scene.

Horrified, Will scuttles away from the body. Attempting to stand, he slips in the blood and braces himself against the bed, leaving a smeared hand print on the sheets.

He is in shock. The blood. The body. The knife. The hand print. What has he done? Overwhelmed, he turns and moves quickly for the door.

INT. WOODED HOUSE - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

The bedroom door is flung open. Seconds later, a panicked Will races out into the hallway, still holding the blade, and freezes. To his surprise, Jack Crawford, Brian Zeller, Jimmy Price, and Beverly Katz are all waiting outside. Everyone stares at Will, taken aback by his appearance.

Beverly Katz: "Will?"

He doesn’t answer. Just stares, discombobulated.

INT. WOODED HOUSE - KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Jack watches as Will attempts to scrub the blood from his hands in the kitchen sink. Will is aware of Jack’s stare but says nothing. Jack takes a calming breath and steps outside.

EXT. WOODED HOUSE - DAY

Jack stares into the open fields surrounding the modest farm house. Will walks out the kitchen door, drying his hands.

Jack Crawford: "I’m going to ask you a question and if I think for a moment you’re withholding anything from me, I cannot guarantee a calm response. What happened in there?"

Will Graham: "I got confused."

Jack Crawford: "I’ve seen you confused before. I’ve seen you upset. I’ve never seen you afraid like you were."

Will Graham: "I’m an old hand at fear. I can manage this one. I was just disoriented. I can go back in."

Jack Crawford: "I saw your face when you walked out of that room. What you experienced in there stunned you silent."

Will Graham: "I can see and hear better afraid. Just can’t speak as concisely."

Jack Crawford: "You contaminated the crime scene."

Will stops dodging and finally admits:

Will Graham: "I thought I was responsible for it."

Jack Crawford: "You thought you killed that woman?"

Will Graham: "Sometimes with what I do --"

Jack Crawford: "What you do is take whatever evidence there is and extrapolate. You reconstruct the thinking of a killer, not think you are a killer."

Will Graham: "I got lost in the reconstruction. Just for a second. Just a blink."

Jack Crawford: "I know you don’t like to be a subject of concern, but consider me officially concerned."

Will Graham: "Officially."

Jack Crawford: "That’s right."

Will Graham: "Thought the reason you have me seeing Dr. Lecter and not an FBI psychiatrist is so my mental well-being stays unofficial."

The truth of that stings more than Jack anticipated.

Jack Crawford: "Have I broken you?"

Will Graham: "Do you have anybody that does this better unbroken than I do broken?"

Jack Crawford: "Fear makes you rude, Will."

INT. WOODED HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Jack follows Will into the crime scene, Beth LeBeau dead on the floor, the ceiling continues to drip-drip-drip around her. Brian Zeller kneels over the body, studying the facial wounds. Beverly stoops next to claw marks on the floor.

Brian Zeller: "She drowned on her own blood."

Jimmy Price: "What she didn’t drown on is all over the floor and under the bed. She was trying to hide from him."

Will Graham: "She was dragged there. He was under the bed waiting for her."

Beverly plucks a broken fingernail out of the wood.

Beverly Katz: "Fought to claw her way out."

Will glances at the framed pictures scattered on the dresser tops. Every picture is smashed. Every face, torn and damaged beyond the simple recognition of fractured smiles.

Will Graham: "He knew her. Or thought he did. It’s someone who cared about her."

Beverly checks the fingers for the one missing a nail.

Beverly Katz: "He cared too much."

Jack Crawford: "We’re looking at boyfriends, ex-boyfriends, co-workers, the guy who bags her groceries."

Jimmy dusts the farrier's hoof knife.

Jimmy Price: "I’ve got one clean set of fingerprints on the knife handle. I assume they’re yours."

Will Graham: "Sorry."

Jimmy Price: "There’s other dermal tissue, presumably from the killer, but the skin is so diseased or damaged it didn’t leave any usable prints."

Beverly Katz: "Victim scratched her killer deep enough to pile tissue under her fingernails but never drew blood."

Jack Crawford: "Why doesn’t he bleed?"

Will Graham looks down at the horror of the woman with a jagged, cruel mouth. Brian Zeller studies the wounds.

Brian Zeller: "After he cut up the victim’s face, it looks like he was trying to pull the skin back."

Will Graham: "Like he was removing a mask."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Will Graham paces. Hannibal regards him with true concern.

Will Graham: "I still have the coppery smell of blood on my hands. I can’t remember seeing her dead body before I saw myself killing her."

Hannibal Lecter: "Those memories sank out of sight, yet you’re aware of their absence."

Will Graham: "They left a slick on the surface of my mind where they’re supposed to be."

Hannibal Lecter: "Where you hope they’re supposed to be, but fear they never were."

Will is haunted by his “false memories” of murder.

Will Graham: "There’s a grandiosity in the violence I imagined that feels more real than what I know is true."

Hannibal Lecter: "What do you know to be true?"

Will Graham: "I know I didn’t kill her. Couldn’t have. But I remember cutting into her. I remember watching her die."

Hannibal Lecter: "You must overcome these delusions that are disguising your reality. What savage delusions does this killer have?"

Will Graham: "It wasn’t savage. It was lonely... desperate... sad."

Hannibal Lecter: "Are you lonely, Will?"

Will Graham: "I caught a glimpse of myself in the mirror. I looked through me, past me. Like I was a stranger."

Hannibal Lecter: "You have to honestly confront your limitations with what you do and how it affects you."

Will Graham: "If by limitations you mean the difference between sanity and insanity... I don’t accept that."

Hannibal Lecter: "What do you accept?"

Will Graham: "I know what kind of crazy I am and this is not that kind of crazy. This could be seizures. This could be a tumor. A blood clot."

Hannibal Lecter: "I can recommend a neurologist. But if it isn’t physiological, then you have to accept what you’re struggling with is mental illness."

INT. DR. DONALD SUTCLIFFE’S OFFICE - DAY

Will and Hannibal are seated in the swank office of Dr. Donald Sutcliffe, a vain and brilliant man.

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "You’re in very good hands. Dr. Lecter is the sanest man I know."

Hannibal Lecter: "I would agree. Dr. Sutcliffe and I were residents together at Hopkins."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "Another life ago. When you didn’t mind getting your hands dirty."

Hannibal Lecter: "I was always drawn to how the mind works. I found it much more dynamic than how the brain works."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "The projected image is more interesting than the projector until the projector breaks down. Any family history of brain disease?"

Will Graham: "Not that I’m aware of."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "I guess we’ll find out. How about accidents, head traumas? Even if you’ve had a slip and fall?"

Will Graham: "I had one or two violent encounters. Basic blunt trauma."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "Ever checked for concussion?"

Will Graham: "No."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "You will be today. When did the headaches start? In earnest?"

Will Graham: "Two to three months ago."

Hannibal Lecter: "About the time Will went back into the field, which is when I met him."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "The hallucinations?"

Will Graham: "I don’t know exactly when they started. I just slowly became aware that I might not be dreaming."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe hands Will a paper hospital gown.

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "When you’re ready, we’re going to slide you into a giant nuclear magnet and see what we can see."

Will lies on the sliding tray of the MRI tube wearing a blue gown, a surface coil placed around his head.

INT. MRI EXAM ROOM - DAY

Will Graham doesn’t look comfortable at all as the whir of the MRI machinery begins.

Hannibal's Voice: "It’s encephalitis."

INT. DR. DONALD SUTCLIFFE’S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal examines the diplomas on Sutcliffe’s wall.

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "That’s your pre-diagnosis?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Yes."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "Based on?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I could smell it."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "Your sense of smell has gone from calling out a nurse’s perfume to diagnosing autoimmune disease."

Hannibal Lecter: "He started sleepwalking and I noticed a very specific scent."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "What does encephalitis smell like?"

Hannibal Lecter: "It has heat. A fevered sweetness."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "If you suspected, why didn’t you say something?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Had to be sure. Symptoms began slow and gradually worsened. Yesterday, I asked him to draw a clock. This is what he drew."

Hannibal opens his notebook and shows Dr. Sutcliffe Will’s Dali-esque drawing of a clock, all the numbers to the right.

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "Spatial neglect. Headaches, disorientation, hallucinations, altered consciousness. He’s got all the tell-tales."

Hannibal Lecter: "It’s so rare to be able to study the psychological effect of this type of malady on a person’s mind."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "More rare still to study the neurological effects."

Hannibal Lecter: "A doctor has to weigh the ultimate benefit of scientific study. Even in these times, we know so little about the brain. There are great discoveries to be made."

INT. MRI EXAM ROOM - DAY

Will lies on the table, which moves slowly into the tube. He slides under Beth LeBeau’s bed, waiting for her.

The MRI begins to make a loud, disconcerting knocking noise during the exam. The knocking gets louder, a disturbing, arrhythmic metronome. Will’s eyes focus in the dark.

Will stares at the water drops drip-drip-dripping into pools in the middle of the room. The knocking of the MRI now scores the distorted pulse of water drops. Beth LeBeau’s legs enter frame. Will Graham reaches out and snatches. Will's hand grabs Beth’s leg, yanking her to the floor.

Will tries to remain composed, but he can’t help but feel like he’s trapped inside a metal coffin. Under the bed, Will turns his head and stares at dead Beth LeBeau staring back at him with lifeless eyes.

A rotating 3-D image of Will's brain scan.

INT. CONTROL ROOM - DAY

Dr. Sutcliffe and Hannibal study a monitor depicting the animated brain scan, as well as the standard “three-slice” scans on multiple control room screens.

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "The entire right side of his brain is inflamed. It’s Anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis. Symptoms are going to get a lot worse."

Hannibal Lecter: "I know. It’s unfortunate for Will."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "Do you smell anything on me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Opportunity."

INT. CONTROL ROOM - DAY (MINUTES LATER)

Dr. Sutcliffe shows Will his perfectly normal brain scans.

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "We didn’t find anything abnormal. No vascular malformations, no tumors. No swelling or bleeding. No evidence of stroke. Nothing wrong with you neurologically."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "Usually when I tell a patient that, they’re happy to hear it."

Will Graham: "So... what I’m experiencing is psychological?"

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "Brain scans can’t diagnose a mental disorder. They can only rule out medical illnesses, like a tumor, that can cause similar symptoms."

Will is definitely not happy.

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "We’ll do some more tests. Take some blood samples, but I imagine they’ll be just as inconclusive."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Hannibal and Jack enjoy brandy by the fire. Winter can be seen falling through the open windows.

Hannibal Lecter: "You knew, from the moment you walked into his classroom, that you were putting Will in a potentially destructive environment."

Jack Crawford: "I had eight college girls dead in Minnesota. He caught their killer."

Hannibal Lecter: "He also caught their killer’s disease. He can’t stop thinking about what it is to take a life."

Jack Crawford: "I’d rather Will Graham go a little mad than some innocent lose their life. And I think Will Graham would rather that, too."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will’s an innocent."

Jack Crawford: "He’s an innocent I know is going to survive. Will is genuine. He’ll always come back to being Will."

Hannibal Lecter: "Not always. So far. He saw a neurologist today. They found nothing wrong with him. He was very upset by that."

Jack Crawford: "He wanted something to be wrong?"

Hannibal Lecter: "He wanted an answer that wasn’t mental illness."

Jack Crawford: "Do you think Will is mentally ill?"

Hannibal Lecter: "The problem Will has is too many mirror neurons. Our heads are filled with them when we’re children. Supposed to help us socialize and melt away. But Will held onto his, which makes knowing who he is a challenge. He’s always reflecting those around him."

Jack Crawford: "It’s a mild form of echopraxia."

Hannibal Lecter: "When you take him to a crime scene, Jack, the very air has screams smeared on it. In those places, he doesn’t just reflect, he absorbs."

EXT. DENSE WOODS - NIGHT

Will eases out of his car. He treads toward Beth LeBeau’s lonely house in the woods. He tears the crime scene tape from the door and enters.

INT. WOODED HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Will enters, glances around, notices the bird cage is empty.

INT. WOODED HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Will walks slowly into the dark bedroom. He turns on the lamp on the night stand. Replaying the recollections in his head. The stain from the murder still coats the floor.

Will Graham: "It’s 10:36 PM. I’m in Greenwood, Delaware. My name is Will Graham."

He edges toward the bed. He crouches to find a pair of eyes staring at him from beneath the bed. Will’s frozen. Dream or reality?

The bed overturns toward him. The lamp on the night stand is smashed. In the flash of the exploding bulb, a shape darts past Will, a dead young woman, her skin yellowed and filthy, the whites of her eyes filled with blood. It may as well be the walking corpse of Beth LeBeau haunting Will’s waking nightmare of murdering her.

But it’s not. Will grabs her by the elbow. With a sickening sound, a whole sheath of skin peels off her arm, leaving Will holding the macabre “glove.”

Instead of holding the glove of skin, it’s a flashlight. He’s no longer in the bedroom.

EXT. WOODED HOUSE - NIGHT

Will focuses his eyes. Swivels around. There’s no sign of the Dead Young Woman. Will looks at his watch and winces. Will Graham has “lost time” again.

Will Graham: "It’s 1:17 AM. We are in Greenwood, Delaware. My name is Will Graham. And you are alive. If you can hear me. You are alive."

INT. WOODED HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Will and Beverly stand over the disheveled room.

Beverly Katz: "Why did you call me? Why not Jack Crawford? Why not the police?"

Will Graham: "I called you because I’m not entirely sure what I saw was real."

That admission almost breaks her heart, but it doesn’t show.

Beverly Katz: "Then let’s prove it."

Will Graham: "I grabbed her arm and an entire layer of dead skin separated from the underlying tissue... like she was wearing a glove."

Beverly Katz: "That’s why she doesn’t bleed."

Will Graham: "No circulation. There’s nothing alive in the tissue to bind it."

Beverly Katz: "What did you do with it."

Will Graham: "I don’t know."

Beverly Katz: "Could be a severe staphylococcal infection. That, or leprosy."

Will Graham: "Her eyes were discolored. She was malnourished. Jaundiced. Liver’s shutting down. She was deranged."

Beverly Katz: "She mutilated a woman’s face because she thought it was a mask."

Will Graham: "She can’t see faces. If she did kill Beth LeBeau, she might not even know she did it."

Beverly Katz: "Then why did she come back?"

Will Graham: "To convince herself she didn’t."

Beverly Katz: "Is that why you came back?"

Will Graham: "If I wasn’t clear on that issue, I know I didn’t kill Beth Lebeau. I just want to know who did."

Beverly Katz: "Me, too. You’re the subject of a lot of speculation at the bureau."

Will Graham: "What are they speculating?"

Beverly Katz: "That Jack pushed you right up to the edge and now you’re pushing yourself over."

Will Graham: "This killer can’t accept her reality. I can occasionally identify with that. That being said, I feel relatively sane."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Will gives the clock drawing back to Hannibal. It is Dali-esque.

Hannibal Lecter: "Thank you for humoring me."

Will Graham: "I feel like I’m seeing a ghost."

Hannibal Lecter: "Regarding this killer or yourself?"

Will Graham: "Both."

Hannibal Lecter: "She’s real. You know she’s real. There is evidence. When you saw her, your sanity did not leave you."

Will Graham: "Time did."

Hannibal Lecter: "You lost time again? I spoke to Dr. Sutcliffe. We briefly discussed the particulars of your visit. Would you like to discuss them with me?"

Will Graham: "There are no particulars. He didn’t find anything wrong."

Hannibal Lecter: "Then we keep looking for answers. Perhaps you would permit me to run some tests of my own?"

Will Graham: "Thematic Apperception Tests? Minnesota Multiphasic?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Among others."

Will Graham: "You wouldn’t publish anything about me, would you, Dr. Lecter?"

Hannibal Lecter: "If there were ever anything that might be of therapeutic value to others, I’d abstract it in a form that’d be totally unrecognizable."

Will Graham: "Just do me a favor and publish it posthumously."

Hannibal Lecter: "After your death or mine?"

Will Graham: "Which ever comes first."

Hannibal Lecter: "Have you considered Cotard’s syndrome? It’s a rare delusional disorder in which a person believes he or she is dead."

Will Graham: "Talking about the killer or me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "The killer, of course."

Will Graham: "She couldn’t see the victim’s face. Or she was trying to uncover it."

Hannibal Lecter: "The inability to identify others is associated with Cotard’s syndrome. It’s a misfiring in the areas of the brain which recognize faces, and also in the amygdala, which adds emotion to those recognitions. Even those closest to her could seem like imposters."

Will Graham: "She reached out for help, someone she loved, someone she trusted. She felt betrayed, became violent."

Hannibal Lecter: "She can’t trust anything or anyone she once knew to be trustworthy. Her mental illness won’t let her. Have you ever felt that way, Will?"

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Will sleeps fitfully, sweating. It’s dark. The Dead Girl, Georgia Madchen, watches the house from the outside. She is emaciated, hand ripped raw from her encounter with Will.

A horrible eye with a subconjunctival hemorrhage and cataracts watches from outside the narrow slit of the curtains as Will sleeps.

On the porch, a set of wet footprints.

Will’s eyelids flicker. He glances over to see the dogs are all staring under the bed, their growls growing ever so gradually. Will leans over the side of the bed, pulling up the sheets, and looking under his mattress and box spring.

A quick, startled glimpse. Face ghostly and white. Eyes filled with blood and cataracts, a living corpse.

Nevertheless, he panics and tumbles off his mattress, scrambling away from the bed. The dogs bark aggressively. Will positions himself between dogs and bed.

Will Graham: "Tssst. Stop."

The dogs stop barking in various stages. Will is strangely calm, cautious. He knows he’s not dreaming. He puts his face close to the ground to peer under the bed.

In her grim visage we see not horror, but sadness. An ache. Georgia Madchen stares back, feral, silent.

Will Graham: "I see you, Georgia."

She scoots further into the shadows under the bed.

Will Graham: "Think of who you are."

The genuine need in Will’s statement calms Georgia.

Will Graham: "It’s midnight. You’re in Wolf Trap, Virginia. Your name is Georgia Madchen. You are not alone. We’re here together."

A long moment of silence, then a distant, raspy whisper.

Georgia Madchen: "Am I alive...?"

INT. F.B.I. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Jack and Will interview Jocelyn Madchen about her daughter.

Jocelyn Madchen: "I was almost relieved when I got the phone call. I thought you found her and she was... would be at peace."

She winces at that admission.

Will Graham: "You thought she might be dead?"

Jocelyn Madchen: "Makes me sound like a horrible mother. I tried to be a good mom. I tried to do everything for her. Just don’t want her to be in pain."

Will Graham: "No one is doubting your dedication to your daughter, Mrs. Madchen."

Jack Crawford: "How well did she know Beth LeBeau?"

Jocelyn Madchen: "They were best friends. Went to school together before it was unsafe for Georgia to go to school. I don’t think they talked in years."

Jack Crawford: "When did you notice your daughter was struggling with mental illness."

Jocelyn Madchen: "When she was nine, she told me she was thinking about killing me and that she was already dead. Imagine staring into your little girl’s eyes and knowing something... awful is evolving behind them."

Will Graham: "What sort of symptoms did she have?"

Jocelyn Madchen: "Older she got, the worse they got. She had seizures, hallucinations, psychotic depression. I was grateful when she was catatonic."

Jack Crawford: "Was she violent?"

Jocelyn Madchen: "Sometimes. We took precautions, made plans. Georgia’s little sister knew to lock herself in the car at the first sign of trouble."

Will Graham: "What did her doctors say?"

Jocelyn Madchen: "Not much. She’d stay in the hospital for months at a time. A million dollars of blood tests and brain scans, all of them inconclusive."

Jocelyn Madchen: "I don’t have a million dollars. I’m being sued by the hospitals and insurance companies, none of them could ever tell me what was wrong."

Will Graham: "You still don’t know?"

Jocelyn Madchen: "They would say it was this or that, but they were always guessing. I did my own research, wrote down every word all those doctors would say, all the different terminology. Learned a lot but mostly what I learned was how little is actually known about mental illness. All they really know is it’s rarely about finding solutions. It’s mostly about managing expectations."

INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - DAY

Jack sits behind his desk, lost in thought, pouring over the case file on Georgia Madchen. Will stands in the doorway.

Will Graham: "Managing your expectations?"

Jack Crawford: "Changing my expectations. After Miriam Lass died, I went to pack up my office. Then the idea of packing became so overwhelming I thought I should just leave. I got a trainee killed. It was a failure of leadership. I was responsible."

Will Graham: "You didn’t kill Miriam Lass. The Chesapeake Ripper did."

Jack Crawford: "Doesn’t feel that way to me. I pulled her out of a classroom like I pulled you out of the classroom."

Will Graham: "She was a student. I’m a teacher."

Jack Crawford: "Neither of you are real F.B.I., which means I’m as responsible for you as much as I was for her."

Will Graham: "I’ll take my own responsibility."

Jack Crawford: "Not from me, you won’t. We’re going to share that responsibility. I broke the rules for Miriam Lass. Encouraged her to break the rules. I’m breaking the rules with you."

Will Graham: "Allowing an unstable agent to do field work?"

Jack Crawford: "Special Agent. Meaning you still represent the F.B.I. Meaning you still represent me."

Will Graham: "Have I misrepresented you, Jack?"

Jack Crawford: "No, but you’ve got me curious. Why are you still here when you and I both know this is bad for you. You had an opportunity to quit. For some reason you didn’t take it."

Will Graham: "Do you want me to quit?"

Jack Crawford: "I want you to know why I think you didn’t quit. You’re still here because what you do here has given you some sense of stability. That stability is good for you, Will."

Will Graham: "Stability requires a strong foundation, Jack. My moorings are built in the sand."

Jack Crawford: "I am not sand. I am bedrock. Even when you are doubting yourself, you don’t have to doubt me."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Classical music plays. Dr. Sutcliffe and Hannibal consider a centerpiece of succulent ham still on the bone.

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "The Jamon Iberico."

Hannibal Lecter: "There is no equivalent."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "Still love your rare treats, don't you, Hannibal? The more difficult and expensive to obtain the better."

Hannibal Lecter: "It's a distinction that adds an expectation of quality."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "Not always."

Hannibal cuts into the meat.

Hannibal Lecter: "For Iberico, only a few pigs are selected each year. Once chosen, they roam the fields of Western Spain, enjoying a diet of local acorns and roots which give the ham its distinct flavor. But is the pig, once fattened and slaughtered and air cured, superior to any other pig, or is it simply a matter of reputation preceding product?"

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "Irrelevant. If the meat-eater believes it’s superior, belief determines value."

Hannibal Lecter: "A case of psychology overriding neurology."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "A case of reputation being king, but referrals being better."

Hannibal Lecter: "Indeed."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "We know how Iberico chooses his pigs. How did you choose yours?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Are you referring to Will Graham?"

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "You’re fond of the rarefied. What makes him so rare?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Will Graham has a remarkably vivid imagination. Beautiful. Pure empathy. Nothing he can’t understand and that terrifies him."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "So you set his mind on fire."

Hannibal Lecter: "Imagination is an interesting accelerant for a fever."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "How far is this going to go? Put out the fire or let him burn?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Will’s my friend. We’ll put out the fire. When it’s necessary."

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "He wants to have more tests."

Hannibal Lecter: "Now we’ve confirmed what it is. It’ll be easier to hide from him."

INT. MRI EXAM ROOM - NIGHT

Now in a hospital gown, Will sits on the MRI's sliding tray and lies down. Dr. Sutcliffe hands him a set of ear-plugs.

Dr. Donald Sutcliffe: "Hang on. I’ll warm this thing up."

As Dr. Sutcliffe exits, Will pops in the ear plugs. The tray slides into the tunnel and comes to a stop. Claustrophobic. The chimes sound. The knocking begins. It's bone-rattling loud. Even with the ear plugs.

He blinks. And silence. Dead. Silence.

Will lies on the tray except now he's outside the MRI tunnel. He removes the ear plugs and sits up. The exam room is empty. He's alone. No one at the controls. He inches off the tray and walks out the door.

INT. SUTCLIFFE'S OFFICE - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Empty. Will steps out of the change room, buttoning his shirt as he shuffles toward Sutcliffe’s Office. He slows to a stop once seeing an odd stain outside Sutcliffe’s door, which is partially ajar, an almost imperceptible speck of something that catches Will’s eye. Then Will notices the burgundy smear on the door knob, as if someone pulled the door shut behind them and it didn’t latch.

Will Graham: "Doctor Sutcliffe?"

No answer. Will moves forward cautiously.

INT. SUTCLIFFE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Will slowly pushes the door open. A series of thin small footprints track back toward Sutcliffe’s chair, each one becoming more defined the closer they are.

Dr. Sutcliffe's eyes stare dead-lidded at Will. They are upside-down, looking over the back of his chair, flipped nose over eyes, PEZ-dispenser style. His jagged “Glasgow Smile” has nearly beheaded him at the jaw. The bloody scissors, the murder weapon, have been discarded on Sutcliffe’s desk in a small smatter of red. The horrible silence rings in Will’s ears.

INT. DR. SUTCLIFFE’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Local Police Officers and FBI Agents can be seen passing in the hall as Beverly runs a CSI ultra-violet wand over Will. Jack Crawford watches. Beverly reassures Will, and Jack.

Beverly Katz: "You’re clean. You couldn’t have done this without getting something on you and there’s nothing on you."

Will Graham: "I don’t feel clean."

Dr. Sutcliffe's face is split open at the jaw, sitting in his chair. Brian Zeller is working over Sutcliffe. He pulls a long stringy hair from the bloodstain on Dr. Sutcliffe’s collar. Jimmy Price takes a picture of the bloody scissors, then carefully picks them up.

Jimmy Price: "Murder weapon has the same diseased or damaged tissue on it that we found at Beth LeBeau’s house."

Brian Zeller: "What connection does this guy have to the first victim?"

Will Graham: "Just me."

Jack Crawford: "What do you remember?"

Will Graham: "I remember coming here. Going into the MRI, getting out... and finding Dr. Sutcliffe’s body."

Jack Crawford: "No confusion?"

Will Graham: "Not that I’m aware of."

Jack Crawford: "This Dr. Sutcliffe, does he usually see patients after hours when he’s the only one in the office?"

Will Graham: "He was very accommodating."

Jack Crawford: "Georgia Madchen followed you here? While you were ticking away in an MRI, she did this to your doctor? Why him?"

Will Graham: "She can’t see faces. Maybe she thought he was me."

Jack Crawford: "Okay, while we’re at it, why you?"

Will Graham: "I don’t know, Jack. I have a habit of collecting strays. I tried to tell her, that night I saw her, I tried to tell her she was alive. Maybe she heard me. Maybe that hadn’t occurred to her in a while."

INT. HOSPITAL - BURN UNIT - DAY

Will approaches a burn tank. Georgia’s visible through clear plastic, protected from the outside world. She is heavily sedated and her body has been coated with antiseptic gel. The dead woman is on life support, her eyes are open but for all intents and purposes, she is unconscious.

Jack Crawford: "Will she recover?"

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal is behind his desk as Jack considers nearby.

Hannibal Lecter: "Risk of infection is high. She’s lost most of her vital fluids. Even some bone mass. She’s being treated like a burn victim."

Jack Crawford: "Will she recover mentally?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Almost all sufferers of this delusion recover with treatment. In extreme cases like this one, electroconvulsive treatment. I’m more concerned about Will."

Jack Crawford: "Thought you’d be more concerned about your friend Dr. Sutcliffe."

Hannibal studies Jack’s intent before answering.

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m grieving Dr. Sutcliffe. But Will’s very much alive. He’s still desperate for an explanation that can make everything right again."

Jack Crawford: "I’m desperate for some explanations myself. I want to talk to this young woman when she recovers. How much of this will she remember?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I sincerely hope for her sake, she doesn’t remember much."

INT. DR. SUTCLIFFE’S OFFICE - NIGHT (GEORGIA'S FLASHBACK)

Georgia eases her ghostly way through Dr. Sutcliffe’s door. From her vantage point, Georgia can only see a man’s back as he works on the recently-deceased Dr. Sutcliffe. The man is wearing a clear plastic suit over a traditional three-piece. Georgia is fascinated as the man works with a fierce grace, lacerating Dr. Sutcliffe’s face in the familiar “Glasgow Smile” with the scissors. He stops, SNIFFS the air, olfactory senses detecting Georgia’s decaying body.

As he turns, Georgia’s Cotard’s Syndrome masks Hannibal’s identity. His face has absolutely no features. Faceless and unrecognizable, Hannibal hands the scissors to Georgia.