EXT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - AFTERNOON

Bedelia Du Maurier and Hannibal Lecter are inside the large windows.

INT. BEDELIA'S HOME OFFICE - AFTERNOON

Bedelia sits opposite Hannibal.

Hannibal Lecter: "Will Graham is troubled."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "And that troubles you beyond professional concern for a patient."

Hannibal Lecter: "I see his madness, and I want to contain it. Like an oil spill."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Oil is valuable. What value does Will Graham's madness have for you?"

Hannibal Lecter: "You suggesting I'm more fascinated with the madness than the man."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Are you?"

Hannibal Lecter: "No."

Bedelia studies the simplicity of Hannibal's reply, allowing her silence to coax more out of him.

Hannibal Lecter: "Will realized early on that he saw things differently than other people. Felt things differently."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "So did you."

Hannibal Lecter: "I see myself in Will."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Do you see yourself in his madness?"

Hannibal considers his answer before speaking it.

Hannibal Lecter: "Madness can be a medicine for the modern world. You take it in moderation, it's beneficial."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You overdose and there are unfortunate side effects."

Hannibal Lecter: "Side effects can be temporary. They can be a boost to our psychological immune systems to help fight the existential crises of normal life."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Will Graham doesn't present you with problems from normal life."

Hannibal Lecter: "No, he doesn't."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "What does he present you with?"

Hannibal Lecter: "The opportunity for friendship."

A simpler answer than she was expecting.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "He's still your patient, Hannibal. When it comes to Will Graham, if your impulse is to step forward, force yourself to take a step back."

Hannibal Lecter: "And just watch him lose his mind?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Sometimes all we can do is watch."

INT. HOSPITAL - GEORGIA MADCHEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Will Graham approaches the hyperbaric chamber in hospital attire, pulling his wheeled IV stand which leads into his arm. Will presses the intercom to speak with Georgia.

Will Graham: "You look better."

Georgia Madchen: "Do I look alive?"

Will Graham: "You look pretty."

Georgia hasn't felt pretty in some time, it takes her a moment to absorb a compliment from a handsome man. She self-consciously brushes her hair back.

Georgia Madchen: "Must be all the oxygen. They said I'm not responding to the anti-psychotics. Have you ever taken anti-psychotics?"

Will Graham: "Never thought I needed to. Before."

Georgia Madchen: "Before when?"

Will Graham: "Before now."

Georgia Madchen: "They say what's wrong with you?"

Will Graham: "Just the fever. They're trying to find out what else."

Georgia Madchen: "They won't find anything. They'll keep looking and keep giving you tests and keep giving you false diagnosis and bad medicine. But they won't find anything wrong. They'll just know you're wrong. I hope you have good insurance."

Will Graham: "I hope I do, too."

Georgia Madchen: "They're going to give me shock treatment. Electroconvulsive therapy is what they called it but shock treatment sounds nicer."

Will Graham: "People who have what you have can recover with shock treatment."

Georgia Madchen: "Know how many times I've been told I would recover with some kind of treatment? They don't know what I have. They're still guessing."

Will Graham: "Maybe they know this time."

Georgia Madchen: "They said I might remember what I did. I don't want to remember."

Will Graham: "You know what you did, Georgia."

Georgia Madchen: "But I don't remember it. I don't remember it like I did it. It feels more like some horrible dream where I killed my friend."

Will Graham: "You dream about killing anyone else?"

Georgia Madchen: "I dreamt you killed that doctor."

INT. DR. SUTCLIFFE’S OFFICE - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

Faceless Hannibal kills Dr. Sutcliffe as Georgia looks on.

INT. HOSPITAL - GEORGIA MADCHEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Will and Georgia, as before.

Georgia Madchen: "But I couldn't see your face."

INT. HOSPITAL - WILL GRAHAM'S ROOM - NIGHT

Will opens his eyes, stirring as an aroma hits him. He sits up in bed as Hannibal pops the lid on a second Tupperware container allowing the steam to escape a rich amber broth.

Will Graham: "Smells delicious."

Hannibal Lecter: "Silkie chicken in a broth. A black boned bird prized in China for its medicinal value since the 7th century. With wolfberries, ginseng, ginger, red dates and star anise."

Will Graham: "You made me chicken soup."

Hannibal offers a supportive smile. Of course he did. They sit silhouetted by the window.

Hannibal Lecter: "The nurses tell me you've been wandering, Will."

Will Graham: "I was awake. And wandering with purpose and good intentions."

Hannibal Lecter: "Visiting that unfortunate young woman suffering from delusions?"

Will Graham: "She's my support group."

Hannibal Lecter: "And I hope you're her's. Nothing more isolating than mental illness."

Will Graham: "I know Dr. Sutcliffe was a friend."

Hannibal Lecter: "She didn't murder Dr. Sutcliffe. Her disease did. I can't blame her for his death any more than you can be blamed for shooting Abel Gideon."

Will Graham: "The hallucinations, the loss of time, sleepwalking. Could that have all just been the fever?"

Hannibal considers saying what Will wants to hear or what he wants Will to hear, then simply replies:

Hannibal Lecter: "It's possible."

Not confident enough an answer for Will.

Will Graham: "What else is possible?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Fevers can be symptoms of dementia. Dementia can be a symptom of many things happening in your body or mind that can no longer be ignored."

Will Graham: "Does Jack know?"

Hannibal Lecter: "That this could be more than a fever? No. I haven't told him."

Will Graham: "Shouldn't you?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Not until we know for certain. What we must do now is continue to support and monitor your recovery. The young woman you were visiting. How is her recovery?"

Will Graham: "I don't think she wants to recover. Afraid to remember what she did."

Hannibal Lecter: "Can't say I blame her."

INT. HOSPITAL - GEORGIA MADCHEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Georgia Madchen wakes with a start. Hands shooting up to touch the glass tube above her, she catches her breath as she realizes where she is again.

In the glass of the Hyperbaric chamber she stares at her reflection. She finds a plastic comb that was tucked beneath it. Studying the comb, Georgia's gaze returns to her reflection. She raises the comb to her hair and runs its plastic teeth through her tangled, dry hair.

As the comb finishes its run, a spark of static electricity ignites. The spark is fed by the pure, pressurized oxygen in the chamber. FWOOM. A roiling fireball unfurls down the length of the tube before splashing back and engulfing Georgia. She's consumed by flame. The chamber is filled with fire as poor Georgia Madchen is incinerated.

INT. HOSPITAL - GEORGIA MADCHEN'S ROOM - DAY

Smoke stains the walls and the high tech hyperbaric chamber. Brian Zeller studies the charred remains of Georgia Madchen as Jimmy Price studies the charred remains of the chamber. Jack Crawford and Will Graham stand nearby. Will is still wearing his hospital robe, holding his rolling IV stand.

Jack Crawford: "Hospital speculates a short circuit could have ignited the fire."

Jimmy Price: "Unit looks well maintained. No exposed wiring."

Brian Zeller: "Don't know if she suffocated or burned to death. We'll look for soot in the lining of her airways."

Will Graham: "Horrible way to die."

Jimmy Price: "A kid in Italy was in one of these things. A spark of static electricity from his pajamas set it off. Two cubic yards of oxygen became two cubic yards of fire."

Jack Crawford: "Could she have started the fire?"

Will is disturbed by that thought. A thought Zeller finds evidence to support. He pulls a blackened anti-static wrist strap out of the Oxygen Chamber.

Brian Zeller: "She wasn't wearing her grounding bracelet. Prevents build up of static electricity. Took it off."

Will Graham: "Suicide? By immolation."

Jack Crawford: "She was facing two murder charges."

Will Graham: "She wasn't suicidal, Jack. She was sick. I was here. I spoke to her."

Jack Crawford: "Why did you speak to her?"

Will Graham: "Because I know what she felt like."

Jack Crawford: "She tried to kill you. She's a murder suspect. Being her friend impacts the case against her."

Will Graham: "The case against her doesn't really matter anymore, does it?"

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - COMMON ROOM - DAY

A gentle afternoon snowfall. Abigail Hobbs and Freddie Lounds work at a table.

Freddie Lounds: "We could use the articles I wrote at the time of each of the murders as book chapter headings."

Freddie lays out pictures of eight girls as she organizes the work space with note cards and police records. She sets up a small recording device near Abigail and presses record.

Freddie Lounds: "Chapters themselves are you telling your story: where you were and what you were thinking when one by one eight girls, just like you, all over Minnesota, were disappearing."

Abigail shifts in her seat, changing the subject.

Abigail Hobbs: "What are we going to call it?"

Freddie Lounds: "Thought about 'The Last Victim' but there's already a book about serial killers called 'The Last Victim.'"

Abigail Hobbs: "Was it a best-seller?"

Freddie Lounds: "Ohyeah. Especially after the guy who wrote it killed himself."

Abigail Hobbs: "Just as well. Wasn't really my dad's last victim anyway, was I?"

Freddie Lounds: "Who was?"

Abigail Hobbs: "Marissa."

Freddie Lounds: "Marissa Schuur was killed by the Copy Cat. So was Cassie Boyle."

Abigail Hobbs: "I still blame my dad."

Freddie Lounds: "Blame him for Nick Boyle's death?"

Abigail Hobbs: "I blame Nick Boyle for Nick Boyle's death. He killed Marissa. He got what was coming to him."

Freddie Lounds: "Nick Boyle didn't kill your friend."

Abigail Hobbs: "Then who did?"

Freddie Lounds: "Better question is who killed Nick."

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

Abigail stabs Nick Boyle, answering the question posed.

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - COMMON ROOM - DAY

Freddie and Abigail, as before.

Freddie Lounds: "Nick Boyle was just a dumb kid who was really messed up because his sister was murdered. He wasn't a killer. I've interviewed enough killers to know one when I see one."

Abigail Hobbs: "What gives them away?"

Freddie Lounds: "It's a very specific brand of hostility. I see it every time I look at Will Graham."

Abigail Hobbs: "He did kill my dad."

Freddie Lounds: "As far as I'm concerned, he killed Nick Boyle. He and Jack Crawford. Told everyone he was the Copy Cat. And someone murdered him for it."

Abigail Hobbs: "You really don't think he did it."

Freddie Lounds: "Whoever killed Nicholas Boyle killed an innocent man."

Abigail flinches imperceptibly.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Will sleeps in his bed. The dogs are crowded together for warmth near the fireplace. His eyes open slowly. He leans up on an elbow. A few feet away from his bed is Georgia Madchen, a melancholy expression on her face as she stands over him.

Will rises only to find that Georgia is gone. He looks to the dogs and sees that they sleep undisturbed. Will goes to the front door and follows Georgia outside.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Will steps onto the porch. Georgia stands at a remove from the house.

Georgia Madchen: "See? See?"

Will watches, staggered, as immense antlers impale Georgia from behind, her back arching. As if from the heat of the immense antlers, Georgia's body bursts into flame, disappearing in a fwoosh of fire revealing the Black Stag.

It stares deeply into Will. He can't breathe.

INT. HOSPITAL - WILL GRAHAM'S ROOM - NIGHT

Will wakes up with a start.

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - JACK CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - DAY

Will Graham approaches Jack at his desk.

Will Graham: "Checked myself out of the hospital."

Jack Crawford: "Check yourself back in."

Will Graham: "Fever broke."

Jack Crawford: "I don't care."

Will Graham: "Georgia Madchen didn't commit suicide. And whatever happened to her wasn't an accident."

Jack Crawford: "I'm going to have Z come down here and put a thermometer in you and if I see a temperature above 99..."

Will Graham: "She was murdered, Jack."

Jack Crawford: "By who?"

Will Graham: "By whoever killed Dr. Sutcliffe."

Jack Crawford: "His blood was all over Georgia Madchen. Her DNA was all over him."

Will Graham: "She wasn't a serial killer."

Jack Crawford: "She was delusional. We don't know what she was capable of."

Will Graham: "She knew what she was capable of. She told me there was someone else there. She couldn't see his face."

Jack Crawford: "There was someone else there. Sutcliffe. And she couldn't see his face because she cut it in half. I know you're looking for an explanation to make this all right."

Will Graham: "There isn't one. There was something wrong with her. We'll never know what that is. Just that she was wrong. However many doctors she saw, however much help she got, she was fighting that wrong alone."

Jack Crawford: "You can't do anything about that."

Will Graham: "All her adult life this woman was misunderstood. What I can do is make sure her death isn't misunderstood. She didn't kill herself. This wasn't an accident."

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY

Brian Zeller, Jimmy Price, Jack Crawford and Will Graham stand over the charred remains of Georgia Madchen.

Brian Zeller: "Dismantled the oxygen chamber to see if we could find evidence of someone tampering with the wiring or a short circuit. Nothing."

Jack Crawford: "Then what sparked the fire?"

Brian Zeller: "Inconclusive."

Jimmy Price: "Not conclusively inconclusive."

He turns their attention to a small band of melted plastic.

Jimmy Price: "Found this. Thought it might have been part of the bed or monitoring equipment, but mass spectrometer said it was celluloid plastic. They don't use plastic in these things."

Will Graham: "It generates static electricity."

Jack takes the band of plastic, studying it.

Brian Zeller: "It was by her head. Her hair was melted into it. Preserved almost like it was in amber."

Jimmy Price: "Static charge from a plastic comb in a highly oxygenated environment would have a powerful accelerant."

Brian Zeller: "Everything combustible in there would combust."

Will looks at the melted plastic in Jack's hand.

Will Graham: "You're holding the murder weapon."

Jack Crawford: "Or what she used to kill herself."

A morgue drawer opens revealing the body of Dr. Sutcliffe on a separate drawer than Georgia Madchen's charred remains. Jack, Will, Zeller and Price are gathered around the slack-jawed dead.

Will Graham: "Whoever killed Sutcliffe wanted to kill him how Georgia Madchen killed her victim. But not exactly how."

Brian Zeller: "Georgia Madchen carved up her victim's face. Sutcliffe was nearly decapitated at the jaw."

Jack Crawford: "She went further the second time. Serial killers often do."

Will Graham: "She was copied. Like whoever killed Marissa Schuur and Cassie Boyle wanted to copy how Garret Jacob Hobbs killed his victims."

Brian Zeller: "But not exactly how."

Jack Crawford: "Wait, wait. Hold on. Now you're telling me Dr. Sutcliffe was killed by Garret Jacob Hobbs' Copy Cat?"

Will Graham: "And so was Georgia Madchen. Because he thinks she saw his face."

Jack Crawford: "You said Nicholas Boyle was the Copy Cat. His blood was on one of the victims. Nicholas Boyle's dead."

Will Graham: "Then he wasn't the copy cat."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER’S OFFICE - DAY

Jack faces Hannibal, who sits behind his desk.

Jack Crawford: "Will's connecting murders that previously had no connection."

Hannibal Lecter: "Beyond his involvement in the investigations."

Jack Crawford: "That's right."

Hannibal Lecter: "You're wondering if the lines are blurring or if he's onto something."

Jack Crawford: "I'm wondering all sorts of things."

Hannibal Lecter: "May I ask, do you believe Georgia Madchen was murdered?"

Jack Crawford: "There's evidence to suggest her death was intentional but it could have easily been by her own hand."

Hannibal Lecter: "This woman was bested by madness. Perhaps what Will can't accept is that she took her own life so she wouldn't kill again."

Jack Crawford: "Why is that so hard to accept?"

Hannibal Lecter: "If she could survive her delusions, then maybe he could survive his. He was hallucinating when he shot Abel Gideon. In his mind, he was killing Garret Jacob Hobbs. Again."

Jack Crawford: "What's Will's relationship with Abigail Hobbs these days?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Complicated."

Jack Crawford: "Three deaths in the Garret Jacob Hobbs case haven't been solved. The third being our only suspect in the first two murders."

Hannibal Lecter: "Nicholas Boyle? Will believes his murder is connected to the others?"

Jack Crawford: "No. I do. Will isn't asking any questions about Nicholas Boyle."

Hannibal Lecter: "What questions would he ask?"

Jack Crawford: "The same questions I've been asking. About Abigail Hobbs."

Hannibal Lecter: "You think Will's protecting her."

Jack Crawford: "Has been since he killed her father. Just don't know from what."

Hannibal Lecter: "I can't imagine he would hide anything criminal from you. I've only ever known Will Graham as a man striving to be his best self."

Jack Crawford: "You haven't known him very long. But we both know him well enough to know he hasn't been himself."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will needs our support, whether or not mental illness is involved."

Jack Crawford: "Is it mental illness or does his mind just work so differently we don't know what else to call it?"

Hannibal Lecter: "There are days when even Will doesn't understand his thinking."

Jack Crawford studies Hannibal. There is something the psychiatrist is hiding. He can sense it. Over this, an insistent knock at someone’s door.

EXT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - NIGHT

Bedelia rises to answer the knocking at the door. She peers through an eyehole. Intrigued. She swings open the door.

Jack Crawford: "Dr. Du Maurier? I’m Special Agent Jack Crawford with the FBI. I’d like to speak with you about a patient of yours."

INT. BEDELIA'S HOME OFFICE - NIGHT

Jack Crawford surveys Bedelia's home as she closes the door behind him.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Do you have a court order?"

Jack Crawford: "I'd rather not get one. May I sit?"

She gestures him toward a chair.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Please. So this isn't an official inquiry."

Jack Crawford: "Not yet. I don't want to damage anyone's reputation unnecessarily."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Whose reputation would that be?"

Jack Crawford: "I suspect Dr. Lecter may be withholding pertinent information involving a murder investigation."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "He hasn't confided in the F.B.I., you're hoping he's confided in his psychiatrist and I'll tell you?"

Jack Crawford: "Yes, ma'am. I don't believe Dr. Lecter is dangerous, but I am concerned about his relationship with a patient of his. A man named Will Graham."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Without consent or court order, I'd be in breach of confidentiality."

Jack Crawford: "If we can't discuss Hannibal Lecter, can we discuss you? You were attacked by a patient. I read the police report. There was even a statement by Dr. Lecter."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "The patient who attacked me was formerly in Dr. Lecter's care."

Jack Crawford: "Dr. Lecter referred him to you?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Yes."

Jack Crawford: "And this patient almost killed you."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "He swallowed his tongue while he was attacking me. It's the only thing that saved my life."

Jack Crawford: "Thank God for small favors."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Yes. Thank god."

Jack Crawford: "There was an attack in Dr. Lecter's office involving another patient. Two dead. Including the patient."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Not bad psychology, Agent Crawford. Putting me in a position of having to defend or not defend Dr. Lecter."

Jack Crawford: "Have to admit he's had some strange relationships with his patients."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Complicated patients are conducive to complicated relationships."

Jack Crawford: "How far would Dr. Lecter go in his therapy to treat a patient? Specifically Will Graham."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Hannibal speaks about Will Graham more like a friend than a patient."

Jack Crawford: "Alright. How far would Dr. Lecter go to treat a friend?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "He doesn't have many of them, so I suspect he would be loyal. I know he's concerned about Mr. Graham and very much wants to help him."

Jack Crawford: "I consider Will a friend. And I want to help him, too."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Seems to me Will Graham could use more friends like Hannibal Lecter."

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY

The bodies of Dr. Sutcliffe and Georgia Madchen each lie on a corpse tray extending out from the open morgue drawer.

Jack Crawford: "Will Graham theorized the Copy Cat killer had some connection to Garret Jacob Hobbs, some personal insight into his life. They may have even met, known each other. Killed together."

Brian Zeller: "Less of a theory, more of a hypothesis."

Jimmy Price: "Theories require evidence."

Jack Crawford: "Let's play Jeopardy. The answer is: these people were killed by the Copy Cat, who has some connection to Garret Jacob Hobbs. Now you ask the right questions."

Brian Zeller: "You mean beyond the application of supposition and unexplained leaps?"

Jimmy Price: "I've been yearning for a return to the fundamentals of investigation."

Jack Crawford: "Where's Beverly?"

Brian Zeller: "She's still deposed in court."

Jack Crawford: "Get her out of court. Look at train station, airport, toll road and hotel details. Track Garret Jacob Hobbs through license plate captures on security footage, and every phone call he made and where he made it from."

Jimmy Price: "I'll see if R&I can loan a couple of clerks to help cross-match."

Jack Crawford: "I want to know every place he went that wasn't home. I want to know who he was there with. How long he was there and the travel time to the nearest missing girl in the Minnesota Shrike case."

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - COMMON ROOM - DAY

Will Graham and Abigail Hobbs talk privately near the greenhouse atrium, in hushed tones.

Abigail Hobbs: "You told me killing somebody was the ugliest thing in the world."

Will Graham: "One of them."

Abigail Hobbs: "I finally get it. I thought there was something wrong with me because I didn't feel ugly when I killed Nick Boyle. I felt good. That's why it was so easy to lie about it."

Will Graham: "Like you'd done nothing wrong."

Abigail Hobbs: "Feel like you were doing something wrong when you were killing my dad?"

He shakes his head "no."

Will Graham: "I felt terrified. The gun I had was taking pieces out of him and he wouldn't go down. I thought he would never die. Then he dropped. Then I felt powerful."

Abigail Hobbs: "Do you still feel powerful?"

Will Graham: "Right now, I just feel confused."

Abigail Hobbs: "I feel ugly. You were right. It is one of the ugliest things in the world... when you've killed someone who didn't deserve to die."

Will Graham: "Thought Nick Boyle was a killer."

Abigail Hobbs: "When I killed him, it felt like I was killing my dad. It felt good. To get to end it. To stop him. I thought I got away from him."

Will Graham: "Neither of us have been able to get away from your father."

Abigail Hobbs: "I see him sometimes. In dreams."

Will doesn't admit that he does, too.

Abigail Hobbs: "I wish I had killed him. For killing my mom. For killing all of those girls. For making me..."

Her voice trails off, some secrets better left kept.

Will Graham: "Making you what, Abigail?"

Abigail Hobbs: "Part of it. Part of any of it. This wasn't supposed to be my life. Hard to have anything, isn't it?"

Will Graham: "Rare to get it, hard to keep it. It's a slippery life."

Abigail Hobbs: "Feels like my dad's still out there."

Will Graham: "In a way, he is."

Abigail Hobbs: "You mean the Copy Cat?"

Will Graham: "I think I can catch him, but I'm going to need your help."

INT. BEDELIA'S HOME OFFICE - NIGHT

Bedelia sits opposite Hannibal, mid-session.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "An agent from the F.B.I. came to see me. He asked questions about your relationship with Will Graham."

Hannibal Lecter: "Jack Crawford was here?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "He had enough doubt in whatever you've told him about your patient, he felt the need to verify."

Hannibal feels the weight of what she is telling him.

Hannibal Lecter: "He believes Abigail Hobbs was involved in her father's crimes and suspects Will is protecting her."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "And evidently he suspects you are protecting Will. Are you?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Are you asking as my psychiatrist?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I'm stepping out of my role as your psychiatrist and speaking to you now as a friend. Whatever you're doing with Will Graham... stop."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will needs my help."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You've crossed professional lines."

Hannibal Lecter: "By making a friend."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You can't function as an agent of friendship for a man disconnected from the concept... as a man disconnected from the concept."

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm protecting Will from influence. He has flaws in intuitive beliefs about what makes him who he is. I'm trying to help him understand."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You may not be able to."

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm not comfortable telling Will my very best attempts to help him may fail and that my loyalty to him and his treatment could be compromised."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Then tell him something else. Jack Crawford asked me about my attack."

Hannibal Lecter: "I see. What did you tell him?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Half-truths. A violent patient swallowed his tongue while attacking me. I didn't tell him how or why or who was responsible."

Hannibal Lecter: "You protect your patient from Jack Crawford, but I can't protect mine?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Not anymore. Even the very best psychiatrists have an inherent limitation to their professional ability. That may be difficult for you to accept."

Hannibal Lecter: "You're right. It is."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You have to maintain boundaries."

Hannibal Lecter: "When the pressures of my personal and professional relationships with Will grow too great, I assure you I'll find a way to relieve them."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal and Will, mid-session.

Will Graham: "I'm much better now. I feel clearer. It had to be the fever."

Hannibal Lecter: "You checked yourself out of the hospital against the recommendation of your attending physician."

Will Graham: "He gave me antibiotics."

Hannibal Lecter: "This is not the behavior of someone who is thinking clearly."

Will Graham: "I'm finally thinking clearly about the Copy Cat."

Hannibal Lecter: "The murders you're attributing to the Copy Cat have suspects, whose DNA was found on the victims."

Will Graham: "So what?"

Hannibal stares, then proceeds calmly.

Hannibal Lecter: "You're choosing to ignore that?"

Will Graham: "Both of those suspects are dead. I'm choosing to factor that into my psychological profile of a killer. Georgia Madchen followed me to Sutcliffe's office. She witnessed his murder, she saw the Copy Cat."

Hannibal Lecter: "Why not kill her then and there?"

Will Graham: "He must not have had time. She was an unreliable witness. And that bought him the time."

Hannibal Lecter: "So he framed her for the murder?"

Will Graham: "He wasn't planning on framing her. He was planning on framing me."

Hannibal Lecter: "You believe this is personal."

Will Graham: "If it wasn't before, it is now. It could be someone at the Bureau, someone in the police force, someone who knows the crimes, and has access to the investigations."

Hannibal Lecter: "Someone like you."

Will considers that briefly, then dismisses the notion.

Will Graham: "There will be evidence. I found a pattern. And now I'm going to reconstruct his thinking."

Hannibal Lecter: "How do you intend to do that?"

Will Graham: "Take Abigail back to Minnesota. Start where the Copy Cat started. With Garret Jacob Hobbs."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will, this is venturing into the paranoid. I can't allow you to pull Abigail into your delusion."

Will Graham: "This isn't a delusion. I'm not hallucinating. I haven't lost time. I am awake and this is real."

Hannibal eyes Will's determination with curious concern.

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - JACK CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - DAY

Brian Zeller and Jimmy Price report to Jack Crawford.

Brian Zeller: "We found train tickets purchased by Garret Jacob Hobbs."

Jack Crawford: "Tickets."

Jimmy Price: "Two."

Brian Zeller: "Tickets were for the same train line one of his victims was using."

Jack Crawford: "Elise Nichols."

Jimmy Price: "Found more instances of Hobbs crossing with victims. Dinner receipts for two. Two hotel rooms near the same campuses."

Brian Zeller: "We know he wasn't traveling alone."

Jack is putting it together before they can tell him.

Jack Crawford: "He was traveling with his daughter."

Brian Zeller: "They were registered for an orientation program at St. Cloud State on the Mississippi, where the Nichols girl was going to school."

Jimmy Price: "Abigail Hobbs attended orientations at every school where a girl was abducted by the Minnesota Shrike. Within days of the abduction."

Brian Zeller: "She was with her father when he chose the girls."

Jack Crawford: "Or she helped him choose the girls."

Brian Zeller: "The connection the Copy Cat has to Garret Jacob Hobbs could be family."

Jack Crawford: "The Copy Cat was inspired by her own father? Killed Cassie Boyle to impress dad? Killed Marissa Schuur in memoriam and then killed Nick Boyle to cover her tracks?"

Brian Zeller: "Why would she kill Sutcliffe and the Madchen girl?"

Jack Crawford: "Either she's got a taste for it or she wants to impress someone new."

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - COMMON ROOM - DAY

Jack enters flanked by two FBI agents and two police officers. Freddie Lounds is sitting at a table alone.

Freddie Lounds: "Hello, Agent Crawford."

Jack Crawford: "Freddie Lounds."

Freddie Lounds: "You look like you came here to arrest somebody. Is it Abigail Hobbs or Will Graham?"

Jack Crawford: "Will Graham was here?"

Freddie Lounds: "Then it was Abigail Hobbs."

Jack Crawford: "Where is she?"

Freddie Lounds: "One of the other girls said Special Agent Graham snuck her out. Don't know why he would feel the need to be sneaky. He's registered as one of her guardians. The irony."

Jack Crawford: "Anybody say where they were going? I know you asked."

Freddie Lounds: "Said they were off without a peep. Attendants don't even know they're gone. I wonder what they're up to. Since you came here to arrest Abigail, I'd say it's no good."

Jack doesn't blink.

Jack Crawford: "How's the book coming?"

Freddie Lounds: "There's some plot holes."

Jack Crawford: "Tell me how you're filling them in."

She eyes Jack, considering all the angles.

Freddie Lounds: "Did Abigail Hobbs kill Nick Boyle?"

Jack Crawford: "What makes you say that?"

Freddie Lounds: "You're arresting her for something."

Jack Crawford: "Can be arresting you for something, too. I'll tear up your chance to tell this story before you take it."

Freddie Lounds: "I've already got exclusive life rights to the Abigail Hobbs story. I can write whatever I want about her. Long as it's true, of course."

Jack Crawford: "Why did you ask me if Abigail Hobbs killed Nick Boyle?"

Freddie Lounds: "Abigail is one of those very smart girls who hasn't figured out that very smart girls grow up and know all the moves they're making when they're trying to hide something. What's Will Graham trying to hide?"

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Jack Crawford confronts Hannibal Lecter.

Jack Crawford: "What the hell is going on between Will Graham and Abigail Hobbs?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Will has been victim to many unusual and irrational thoughts."

Jack Crawford: "Has he acted on those thoughts?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Not that I'm aware of or he's aware of, for that matter. But he has experienced periods of lost time."

Jack Crawford: "I've seen him confused at crime scenes. He was disoriented."

Hannibal Lecter: "He may've been confused because he was waking up. Might not have known where he was or how he got there."

Jack Crawford: "Waking up?"

Hannibal Lecter: "From a dissociated personality state. He would appear perfectly normal and not remember a thing. But a fractured part of him would."

Jack Crawford: "You knew about this."

Hannibal Lecter: "He's only recently started to discuss these episodes."

Jack Crawford: "Unless recently was right before I walked into this room, you failed to mention any of this to me."

Hannibal Lecter: "Because I was trying to determine if it was trauma and stress from the work he does for you... or mental illness. Thought it wise to be sure before making any kind of claim about Will Graham's sanity."

Jack Crawford: "He took Abigail Hobbs. Any idea where they could be going?"

Hannibal Lecter: "No."

Jack Crawford: "We have evidence she was involved in her father's crimes. We just don't know how involved."

Hannibal appears appropriately gobsmacked by this revelation.

Jack Crawford: "Could Will know what she did? Is that why he's been protecting her?"

Hannibal looks like a man who wants to have a heart-to-heart.

Hannibal Lecter: "There's something you should hear."

Hannibal presses play on a recording device and watches Jack Crawford listen.

Hannibal's Voice: "How did you feel seeing Marissa Schuur impaled in the antler room?"

Will Graham's Voice: "Guilty."

Hannibal's Voice: "Because you couldn't save her?"

Will Graham's Voice: "Because I felt like I killed her."

Hannibal presses stop, studying Jack's reaction.

Jack Crawford: "Where was Will the night Marissa Schuur was murdered?"

Hannibal Lecter: "He was supposed to be in his hotel room. I knocked on his door. He didn't answer. He told Alana Bloom he decided to go to bed early."

Jack Crawford: "We know Will was in Sutcliffe's office when he was killed. And Will was the last person to visit Georgia Madchen before she died."

Hannibal Lecter: "Is Will Graham a suspect?"

Jack Crawford: "This dissociated personality state you say he goes into... whose personality is it?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Will said he got so close to Garret Jacob Hobbs and what he had done, he felt like he was becoming him."

Jack Crawford: "Now Will has Hobbs' daughter."

Hannibal Lecter: "Who Hobbs was intending to kill."

INT. AIRPLANE - DAY

Will stares into middle distance as Abigail stares out the window at the world below.

Abigail Hobbs: "Minnesota is so flat."

Will Graham: "Blame the glaciers."

Abigail Hobbs: "It's why we have so many lakes."

Will Graham: "Land of 10,000 of them. According to the license plates."

Abigail glances at Will as he shakes several aspirin into his hand and washes them back.

Abigail Hobbs: "You're looking a little pasty. Maybe you shouldn't have checked yourself out of the hospital."

Will Graham: "I feel fine."

Abigail studies him a moment, then turns back to the window.

Abigail Hobbs: "Glaciers ripped up the Minnesota when they retreated into Canada, exposed the irregularities in the earth, filled them up with water."

Will Graham: "Exposing irregularities is good. Can be good. Occasionally not."

Abigail Hobbs: "Good as long as you fill them up with something. Least that's what we did in the Hobbs Family. Would've been my mom's birthday next week. We were gonna climb Eagle Mountain to celebrate. Highest point in Minnesota, but it's not really that high. Less than three hours to summit. You can see Lake Superior from there."

Will Graham: "I'll take you, if you want to go."

Abigail Hobbs: "I think it would just make me sad. Some places are stained now. Some people, too. I know I am."

EXT. HOBBS CABIN - DAY

A rental car creeps down the driveway toward the familiar, yet ominous rustic hunting cabin surrounded by barren trees and drifts of snow. Will Graham and Abigail Hobbs stare in silence at the Rustic Cabin looming as they drive up to the front door. Will and Abigail get out of the car and approach the cabin. The door opens, Will and Abigail silhouetted in the frame.

INT. HOBBS CABIN - ANTLER ROOM - DAY

Will and Abigail move cautiously through the space, as if the air itself was still filled with screams.

Will Graham: "The Copy Cat knew your father well enough to know about this place."

Abigail Hobbs: "You felt like you knew my father."

Will Graham: "I tried to know him. I still try."

Abigail Hobbs: "Even after you killed him."

Will Graham: "Maybe even because I killed him. I wanted to understand him. I felt like I had to understand him."

Abigail runs her fingertips over the point of an antler.

Abigail Hobbs: "Do you ever hunt?"

Will Graham: "I fish."

Abigail Hobbs: "Same thing, isn't it. One you stalk, the other you lure."

It's a simple distinction, but Will is haunted by it.

Will Graham: "Were you more fisherman or hunter?"

Abigail Hobbs: "My dad taught me how to hunt."

Will Graham: "That's not what I'm asking. All those girls your father killed. Did you fish or did you hunt, Abigail?"

The question hangs in the air.

Abigail Hobbs: "I was the lure."

Will more or less hides his profound sadness at that.

Abigail Hobbs: "Did Hannibal tell you?"

Will Graham: "No. He didn't."

Abigail Hobbs: "He said that you'd protect me. That you'd keep it secret."

Will is at a loss for words. He places his hands on Abigail's shoulders; it's terrifying for him to look her in the eyes, to see all of his belief in her innocence gone. He finally meets her gaze, and picks her up and violently shoves her against the wall of antlers, running her through.

Abigail's scream takes us suddenly back to reality. Will stares at the antlers hanging on the wall, empty. No Abigail impaled on them. Instead, she stands behind him.

Abigail Hobbs: "Something's wrong with you. I think you're still sick."

Will reacts, disturbed by the image conjured in his head.

Will Graham: "Jack Crawford was right. He knew. You killed Nick Boyle. You helped your father kill all those girls."

Abigail Hobbs: "I didn't help my dad kill anyone."

Will Graham: "You lured them. You killed them. Who else have you killed?"

Abigail shrinks away from Will, terrified.

Abigail Hobbs: "Do you think I'm the Copy Cat? You think I killed Marissa?"

Will Graham: "If you didn't kill her, Abigail, someone you know did."

Will rubs his head, confused by the images racing through his mind, trying to massage them into coherency.

Abigail Hobbs: "Did you ever think maybe that someone could be you. You were there, you saw Marissa. You knew about this place. And there is something wrong with you."

Abigail's accusations bear down, her voice distorting until sound drops out, replaced by the drone of a vacuum cleaner.

INT. AIRPLANE - NIGHT

Will blinks. He is sitting alone on the nearly deserted plane. An airline cleaning crew moves through the cabin, collecting discarded trash, wiping down arm rests and tray tables. A member of the Cleaning Crew vacuums in the background. A Flight Attendant quietly interrupts Will's confusion.

Flight Attendant: "Sir. I'm afraid I have to ask you to leave. We're preparing the cabin for the next passengers."

Will Graham: "I'm sorry."

Flight Attendant: "Are you on a connecting flight?"

Will Graham: "Where are we?"

Flight Attendant: "Dulles International. Virginia. Is this your final destination?"

Will Graham: "Yes. I think so. I was traveling with a young woman."

Flight Attendant: "All the other passengers have disembarked. It's just you."

Will absently rises from his seat and heads down the aisle.

Flight Attendant: "Sir."

She offers Will his coat. He takes it with a nod.

Will Graham: "Thank you."

As Will walks away, the Flight Attendant watches after him.

INT. HOBBS HOUSE - FOYER - NIGHT

Raining. A crouching figure pops the screen off the window and slides it open. The crouching figure is Abigail Hobbs soaking wet. She closes the window behind her. Abigail quietly sneaks up the stairs, careful not to make too much noise. The air is perfectly still and her footsteps make nearly no noise as she moves into the kitchen.

INT. HOBBS HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Abigail walks in and startles to find Hannibal Lecter standing against the counter. Waiting for her. She immediately runs into his arms for a huge hug.

Abigail Hobbs: "What are you doing here?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I was worried about you. Will told me he was taking you to Minnesota. I strongly advised against it."

He gently releases the hug, looking Abigail in the eyes.

Hannibal Lecter: "Where is Will, Abigail?"

Abigail Hobbs: "I left him at the cabin. I didn't feel safe with him. So I left him. He knows everything."

Hannibal Lecter: "So does Jack Crawford."

Abigail's mind spins, her options narrowing.

Abigail Hobbs: "If I run, they'll catch me, won't they. You can't protect me anymore."

Hannibal Lecter: "They'll arrest you when they find you. They'll arrest Will, too."

Abigail Hobbs: "Did he kill Marissa?"

Hannibal Lecter: "They will believe he did. They will believe he killed others, too."

Abigail stares at Hannibal, awareness dawning.

Abigail Hobbs: "Will always said whoever called the house that morning was the serial killer. Why did you really call?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I wanted to warn your father that Will Graham was coming for him."

Abigail Hobbs: "Why?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I was curious what would happen. I was curious what would happen when I killed Marissa. I was curious what you would do."

A wave of near-nausea washes over her, she pushes it down.

Abigail Hobbs: "You wanted me to kill Nick Boyle."

Hannibal Lecter: "I was hoping. I wanted to see how much like your father you were."

Abigail Hobbs: "Ohmygod."

Hannibal Lecter: "Nicholas Boyle is more important for you gutting him. He changed you. That's more important than the life he clamored after."

Abigail Hobbs: "How many people have you killed?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Many more than your father."

Quiet tears stream as she realizes what she only dare ask:

Abigail Hobbs: "Are you going to kill me?"

He gently strokes her cheek, then:

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm so sorry, Abigail. I'm sorry I couldn't protect you in this life."