EXT. HOBBS NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

The reflection of police lights dances across the window Abigail is looking through as Hannibal drives toward Abigail’s home, Alana Bloom in the passenger seat. Abigail, Alana and Hannibal get out of the car. Abigail glances back at the crowd of reporters and camera men.

Abigail and her escorts walk toward the Hobbs Residence, while their eyes regard the Police Line. They finally look away just as Marissa’s Mother pushes her way through the crowd. A policeman awkwardly tries to hold her back.

Like a paternal shield, Hannibal eases Abigail toward Alana and steps to intercept Marissa’s Mother. He bars her path, grips her arms, his hands soft but firm.

Marissa's Mother: "Why come back? Why did you come back here? Why did you come back?"

Abigail can’t find her words. Marissa’s Mother is so wracked with grief she can barely stand. A Policeman arrives behind her as Alana moves in, easing her from Hannibal’s hold. Freddie steps out of the shadows near the garage.

Freddie Lounds: "Abigail."

Hannibal Lecter: "Miss Lounds, you’re on the wrong side of the police line."

Freddie Lounds: "This is my tale to tell. I’ve been covering the Minnesota Shrike long before you got involved."

But Hannibal and a Police Officer are already approaching. The Police Officer grabs Freddie by the elbow, ushering her away from the Hobbs House and Abigail. She calls out:

Freddie Lounds: "I want to help you tell your story. You need me now more than ever."

Abigail Hobbs: "I want to talk to her."

Alana Bloom: "No, you don’t. Go inside."

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - RECREATION ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

Abigail sits on the couch, crying quietly, emotionally exhausted from the horrors of the day. A handmade pillow embroidered across the surface with an image of a deer walking across a plane, trimmed in pelt. She clutches it to her stomach, needing something to hold. Then it dawns on her.

Abigail’s hands gnarl as she begins pulling at the fabric of the pillow, digging her fingernails into it. The pillow begins to rip at the seams and Abigail tears it open. She begins to shake before revealing she’s removed the pillow’s stuffing.

Wads and wads and wads of human hair.

Abigail’s heartbeat pounds in her ears, filling her head with a rhythmic, oppressive tone. She begins to tremble. As Abigail reels from this horror, there’s a blur of motion unbeknownst to her in front of the sliding glass doors. A slight breeze blows through Abigail’s hair and sound returns to normal. She looks up to see the sliding glass doors are now open. Standing in front of her: Nicholas Boyle.

Nick Boyle: "I’m not going to hurt you. I got to talk to someone. I didn’t kill that girl. I swear I didn’t."

Abigail instinctively goes still. Then bolts. Nick Boyle grabs her, spins her around and forces her against the wall, his hand over her mouth.

Nick Boyle: "I didn’t -"

Nick stiffens suddenly, eyes going wide as Abigail has plunged a kitchen knife into him at his sternum. She pulls it down, gutting him in one horrible motion. Just like her father showed her. Nick stumbles back, already glassy eyed, and the awful wet sound that follows can only be his entrails.

EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

Hannibal and Alana return from the media circus down the street, crossing the Police Line surrounding the Hobbs house.

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - FOYER - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

Alana and Hannibal enter through the front doors, moving toward the kitchen.

Alana Bloom: "Abigail?"

Before Alana can reach the kitchen, she sees a bloodied Abigail walking up the stairs, shell-shocked.

Alana Bloom: "Abigail?"

Before Alana can get out another word... WHAM. Hannibal palms the side of her head from behind, slamming her into the wall in one move. Alana is instantly knocked out, collapsing into Hannibal’s arms as he gently lies her on the ground. Abigail is stunned by Hannibal’s sudden brutality but he reassures her:

Hannibal Lecter: "She’ll be alright. Show me what happened."

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - RECREATION ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

Hannibal cautiously enters, Abigail behind him, to find the disemboweled corpse of Nick Boyle slumped in the room. Abigail doesn’t weep, she doesn’t appear victimized and broken. She simply stares, inscrutably. Hannibal squats besides her, putting a steady hand on her shoulder as if to rouse her out of a deep sleep. His voice is gentle, fatherly.

Hannibal Lecter: "Abigail?"

Abigail is terrified, traumatized by the blood on her hands.

Abigail Hobbs: "He was going to kill me."

Hannibal Lecter: "Was he? This isn’t self defense, Abigail. You butchered him."

Abigail Hobbs: "I didn’t..."

Hannibal Lecter: "They will see what you did and they will see you as an accessory to the crime of your father."

Abigail Hobbs: "I wasn’t..."

Hannibal Lecter: "I can help you, if you ask me to. At great risk to my career and my life. You have a choice. You can tell them you were defending yourself when you gutted this man... or we can hide the body."

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - GROUP THERAPY - DAY

Abigail Hobbs is speaking to the group. Her voice is emotional, raw, no evasion or defences here.

Abigail Hobbs: "Every day I wake up and I hear my dad’s voice. Like he was kneeling next to my bed. I hear him whisper what he told me... he told me he killed girls... again and again... so he wouldn’t have to kill me. I wish he was still alive so I could ask him... what did I make him feel? What was so wrong with me that he wanted to kill --"

Young Woman's Voice: "He should have killed you."

She looks across the circle. To where Elise Nichols (the final Minnesota Shrike victim) sits in the circle. She wears her white nightdress, dried blood-stained antler wounds evident. She looks at Abigail.

Elise Nichols: "So he wouldn’t have killed me..."

And now we realize the circle is made up of Minnesota Shrike victims. The next girl says:

Shrike Victim: "So he wouldn’t have killed me..."

They all begin to say it. To Abigail’s mounting horror it becomes a chorus, a chant, overlapping, harmonizing:

Shrike Victims: "So he wouldn’t have killed me... So he wouldn’t have killed me..."

Abigail puts her hands to her ears to drown them out. Closes her eyes. A still beat of silence and she slowly pulls her hands away from her ears. She opens her eyes and Nick Boyle sits across from her, the only other person in the circle. His clothes bloodied and dirty. He stares into her.

Nick Boyle: "He should have killed you... so YOU wouldn’t have killed me -"

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL’S ROOM - NIGHT

Abigail jerks awake in the darkness of her room. Gasping. Sweating. Freaked out by this vivid dream.

GRAFTON, WEST VIRGINIA - EXT. BEACH - DAY

Will Graham walks across chilly winter beach, past local police closing off the crime scene, toward Jack Crawford, Beverly Katz, Jimmy Price and Brian Zeller. They are looking up at a grotesque totem pole, a crazily artistic vertical display made up of human body parts (from a lot of bodies). Dried dead faces mark it at regular intervals getting fresher and fresher as they reach the top.

The headpiece is the brutalized body of a recently murdered man (Joel Summers, 40). His bones and joints have been broken, so that his legs spread out from either side like wings. His head and torso lean forward like a hawk, ready to pounce with dead eyes.

Around the totem pole, the field shows seven recently dug shallow graves, like dark earthen wounds in the sand. Blood splatter marks the base of the totem pole. Will pulls aspirin from his pocket and chews two.

Beverly Katz: "I got ten heads and counting..."

Brian Zeller: "The world’s sickest jigsaw puzzle."

Jimmy Price: "Where are the corners? My mom always said start a jigsaw with the corners..."

Brian Zeller: "I guess the heads are the corners?"

Beverley circles the totem pole, counting body parts.

Beverly Katz: "We’ve got too many corners. Seven graves. Way more heads."

Will Graham: "It’s a totem pole."

Jack Crawford: "The headpiece is the only recent victim. The others are years, even decades old. At least seven of them were buried on the beach."

Will Graham: "Whoever dug them up knew exactly where they were buried."

Jack Crawford: "Killing them once wasn’t enough. He came back to defile his victims."

Will Graham: "These graves weren’t desecrated, Jack. They were exposed."

EXT. FIELD - MOMENTS LATER

Katz, Price and Zeller herd back the intrigued local officers. Jack watches Will Graham from across the field as he continues to stare upwards at the totem pole.

Will Graham exhales, then closes his eyes.

A pendulum swings in the darkness of Will Graham’s mind. FWUM.

The pendulum now swings outside Will’s head. As it swings the police presence is wiped from the field. FWUM. Now only the totem pole remains. The pendulum swings again and the totem pole now lies flat on the ground with its horrific decoration. FWUM. The pendulum swings across the totem pole and the blood is lifted from the snow. The pendulum stops swinging, snapping into place.

The scene has now been decriminalized in Will’s mind.

Will Graham opens his eyes, walks forward and kneels in the snow. His raw material laid out around him in the snow. Corpses. The oldest have rags of cloth and dried-out flesh, and they get fresher along the line.

Will Graham: "I planned this moment... this monument with precision. Collected all my raw materials in advance."

He is wiring body parts in an intricate pattern to one end of the horizontal wooden pole. He attaches a skull.

Will Graham: "I position the bodies carefully, according each its rightful place. Peace in the pieces disassembled."

As Will works, Joel Summers is bound and gagged, lying terrified in the snow. Struggling against his bonds. Wrists bloody from his efforts. Smearing the snow with red.

Will Graham: "My latest victim I save for last. I want him to watch me work. I want him to know my design."

Now Will kneels by Joel Summers and raises a hunting knife. Will’s murderous face is reflected large in Joel Summers’ terrified eye, and he brings down the knife, hard and fast into Joel Summers’ heart.

Will Graham: "Your death is my crowning glory."

Blood seeps into the surrounding sand. The horrible head piece that is the corpse of Joel Summers rises into frame, looming above.

Will Graham: "This is my resume. My body of work."

Will looks up as a solitary drop of blood falls towards his face. He blinks slowly.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - DAY

Will finishes the blink, but now he sits in the waiting room.

Hannibal Lecter: "Will?"

Will glances up to find Hannibal at the office door.

Hannibal Lecter: "I wasn’t expecting you."

Will shows his fear, because he has no answer to that question.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

Will paces, agitated. Hannibal sits, hoping his calm will bring Will to him.

Will Graham: "I don’t know how I got here."

Hannibal Lecter: "Your car is outside. So we know you drove. Safely it would seem."

Will Graham: "I was on a beach in Grafton, West Virginia... I blinked and then I was waking up in your waiting room. Except I wasn’t asleep."

Hannibal Lecter: "Grafton, West Virginia is three-and-a-half hours from here. You lost time."

Will Graham: "Something is wrong with me."

Hannibal Lecter: "You’re disassociating, Will. It’s a desperate survival mechanism for a psyche that endures repeated abuse."

Will Graham: "I’m not abused."

Hannibal Lecter: "You have an empathy disorder. What you feel is overwhelming you."

Will Graham: "I know."

Hannibal Lecter: "Yet you choose to ignore it. That is the abuse I’m referring to."

Will Graham: "You want me to quit?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Jack Crawford gave you a chance to quit and you didn’t take it. Why?"

Will Graham: "I save lives."

Hannibal Lecter: "And that feels good."

Will Graham: "Generally speaking, yes."

Hannibal Lecter: "What about your life? I’m your friend, Will. I don’t care about the lives you save. I care about your life. And your life is separating from reality."

Will considers. It’s difficult for him to admit, but he does.

Will Graham: "I’ve been sleepwalking. I’m experiencing hallucinations. Maybe I should get a brain scan."

Hannibal Lecter: "Damnit, Will. Stop looking in the wrong corner for an answer to this."

Will is briefly startled by Hannibal’s passionate concern.

Hannibal Lecter: "You were at a crime scene when you disassociated. Tell me about it."

Will Graham: "It was a totem pole of bodies."

Hannibal Lecter: "In some cultures, crimes and guilt are made manifest so that everyone can see them and see their shame."

Will Graham: "This isn’t shame. It’s celebration. He’s marking his achievements."

Hannibal Lecter: "And faced with this killer’s achievements, your mind needed to escape and you lost time."

Will Graham: "Yes."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m worried about you, Will."

Will Graham: "I’m worried about me, too."

Hannibal Lecter: "You empathize so completely with the killers Jack Crawford has your mind wrapped around that you lose yourself to them. What if you lose time and hurt yourself or someone else? I don’t want you to wake up and see a totem of your own making."

Will has nothing to say in return.

EXT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL’S ROOM - DAY

Abigail Hobbs looks contemplatively out her window through the falling snow.

Abigail Hobbs: "They sold my parents’ house."

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL’S ROOM - DAY

Abigail turns to Freddie Lounds, who sits on her bed.

Abigail Hobbs: "Murder houses don’t fetch big money in today’s real estate market."

Freddie Lounds: "Not that you’ll get any of it. The families of your father’s victims filed wrongful death suits."

Abigail Hobbs: "Wrongful death?"

Freddie Lounds: "That means they get everything, Abigail. Every penny. What you have here is all you have."

Abigail Hobbs: "Let them take all his money. I don’t want any of it."

Freddie Lounds: "You can make your own money."

Abigail Hobbs: "How much would I get if you wrote a book about me? About my dad?"

Freddie treads carefully here.

Freddie Lounds: "Plenty."

Abigail Hobbs: "Do you still want to tell my story?"

Freddie Lounds: "I think you need to tell your own story. But I’m the one to help you tell it. Nobody knows more about what your father did than I do."

Abigail Hobbs: "Not even Will Graham?"

Freddie Lounds: "Will Graham is part of the story you tell, Abigail, not the person to help you tell it."

Abigail Hobbs: "He avoids me because I make him feel like my father."

Freddie Lounds: "Feeling like your father, makes him feel like a killer."

Abigail Hobbs: "It’s like my dad walks beside us when we’re together. People think I helped my dad kill those girls."

Freddie Lounds: "You can change what people think. We can change that together. Everyone will know the truth."

Abigail Hobbs: "Okay. Let’s tell my story."

Freddie allows herself a smile, but not too big.

EXT. F.B.I - DAY

Time lapse of FBI building.

INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORD’S OFFICE - DAY

Jack Crawford is reading behind his desk. A knock and he looks up to see Will Graham at the door.

Will Graham: "I’m sorry about yesterday."

Jack Crawford: "Sorry about what?"

Will is momentarily puzzled, but covers effectively.

Will Graham: "I wasn’t feeling like myself."

Jack Crawford: "Not feeling like yourself is the nature of what you do."

Will Graham: "Suppose so. I seemed fine to you?"

Will stands there a moment, Jack studying him.

Jack Crawford: "Something you want to tell me?"

Will Graham: "No."

Jack Crawford: "Then there seems to be something you don’t want to tell me."

Will Graham: "I guess I just got a little lost yesterday, is all."

Jack Crawford: "And where are you now?"

Will Graham: "It got to me. All those bodies got to me. I thought it was more obvious than it was."

Jack Crawford: "If there’s a problem, you need to tell me. And let me help you. Is there a problem, Will?"

Will Graham: "Everything’s fine."

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY

Will Graham enters to find the lab is groaning under the weight of the Totem Pole bodies. Body parts and re-assembled corpses on numerous tables. A large blow-up photo of the Totem Pole Crime Scene -- spaces marked for each victim ID, corresponding to tags on the body parts. Jimmy Price, Beverly Katz and Brian Zeller are all in lab coats, hard at work on the jigsaw.

Will Graham: "How many bodies?"

Brian Zeller goes to the wall and pulls out a body drawer. Inside is Joel Summers’ corpse. His limbs still twisted.

Brian Zeller: "We got seventeen in total."

Jimmy Price: "Freshest one is Joel Summers. Forty years old, runs a cell phone store in Knoxville, Tennessee. Or did. Been missing for three days."

Brian Zeller: "Single stab wound to the heart. All the other injuries are post mortem. Bones broken, hips and shoulders dislocated."

Will Graham: "He was special to him somehow. He held a place of honor."

Jimmy Price: "Seven bodies from unmarked graves at the crime scene - earth on the body parts matches the grave sites."

Brian Zeller: "Blunt force trauma, stabbings, strangulations. Wrongful deaths."

Beverly Katz: "There are at least eight other bodies that are recent grave robbings from all across West Virginia. No crimes attributed to any of them. Accidental deaths."

Will shakes his head.

Will Graham: "They were all murders."

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL - DAY

Will Graham is at the lectern, mid-lecture. The eerie light comes from the screens where pictures of the totem pole are displayed. Will clicks through images as he speaks.

Will Graham: "...Anthony Lamb, 28, fatal car wreck, 1986."

Image - a mangled car on the highway -- Click -- now a still of a laughing woman, 30s.

Will Graham: "...Francesca Bourdain, 42, suicide, pills, 1994."

Click.

Will Graham: "...Adrian Packham, 60, massive coronary, 2001."

Click.

Will Graham: "...Peter McGee, carbon monoxide poisoning in his home, 2006."

Click -- Image of the graves in the snow.

Will Graham: "And seven as-yet unidentified bodies buried near a beach."

He looks out at rapt faces of FBI trainees as they listen and take notes.

Will Graham: "Every death is different. Made to look like something else. No sadism, no torture. The method of these murders was less important to the killer than the simple fact that these people die."

Click -- The twisted body of Joel Summers.

Will Graham: "Joel Summers - killed by a single stab to the heart. Presented with great ostentation atop a display of all the previous victims. This killer’s design was to never be discovered. A ghost. That is what excited him. Until now... Why is he coming into the light?"

Woman’s Voice: "Will?"

Will shades his eyes from the projector light.

Alana Bloom: "I don’t want to interrupt if you’re rehearsing..."

Alana stands in the entrance of the otherwise empty and dark lecture theatre. Will is thrown. Will is alone in the lecture hall. No pictures on the screens, no students. Will looks at Alana and realizes he has been hallucinating. Tries to hide his disorientation.

Will Graham: "No. No... it’s okay."

She looks around the dark space.

Alana Bloom: "Very moody in here."

Will Graham: "That’s me all over."

A smile between them. And a tension.

Will Graham: "Come on in. I promise I won’t try to kiss you again. Unless you stopped taking your own advice."

She smiles, grateful he hit it head on.

Alana Bloom: "A doctor who treats herself has a fool for a patient. I regretted leaving your house the other night."

Will Graham: "Regretted? Implying that you are no longer regretting? Or are you still in a state of regret?"

Alana Bloom: "I’m criss-crossing the state line."

Will Graham: "What side of the line you on now?"

Alana Bloom: "I’ve got a foot planted firmly on both sides."

Will Graham: "You telling me that to confuse me?"

Alana Bloom: "I’m telling you to be honest about how I feel. Don’t want to mislead you but I don’t want to lie either."

Will Graham: "I won’t lie if you won’t."

Alana Bloom: "I have feelings for you, Will. But I don’t want to just have an affair with you. It would be reckless."

Will Graham: "Why? It’s not because you have a professional curiosity about me."

Alana Bloom: "No, it’s because I think you’re unstable. And until that changes I can only be your friend."

A deafening silence.

Will Graham: "Thank you for not lying."

Alana Bloom: "Do you feel unstable?"

He stares at her a moment, then slowly nods. She quietly crosses to him, puts arms around him and holds him tight.

Alana Bloom: "I can’t be what I want to be for you. But I am here."

Will allows himself to be held long enough.

INT. HANNIBAL’S CAR - DAY

Hannibal and Will drive in silence. Hannibal allowing Will to stare out the passenger side window without distraction.

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - COMMON ROOM - DAY

Will is with Hannibal and Abigail at the hospital.

Will Graham: "I’m trying hard to be understated when I say this is a bad idea."

Hannibal Lecter: "Freddie Lounds is dangerous."

Hannibal watches all this in silence, letting it play out.

Abigail Hobbs: "She said she wants me to talk about you guys in the book."

Hannibal Lecter: "You would be forfeiting your privacy and ours."

Abigail Hobbs: "My privacy’s already been forfeited."

Will Graham: "This. All of this will change. Whatever you’re feeling now, it won’t last. Things change."

Abigail Hobbs: "Yes, things change. For instance, you’re here. For a change."

Will Graham: "Things are changing for me, too. Doing some accounting for what’s important in my life and what isn’t. You’re important, Abigail."

Abigail Hobbs: "Now that I’m writing a book."

Hannibal Lecter: "Abigail."

Will Graham: "I can’t help feeling some responsibility for you."

Abigail Hobbs: "Just because you killed my dad doesn’t mean you get to be him."

Hannibal sees Will struggle with that and steps in.

Hannibal Lecter: "We’ve been through a traumatic event, no one more traumatized than you, Abigail. But we went through it together. What you write you write about all of us."

Abigail Hobbs: "I don’t need your permission."

Hannibal Lecter: "And you don’t need our approval. But I hope it would mean something."

Abigail considers that, her defiance softening.

Abigail Hobbs: "I know what people think I did. They’re wrong. Why can’t I tell everybody they’re wrong?"

Will Graham: "You have nothing to apologize for."

Hannibal Lecter: "Yet."

Abigail glances at Hannibal.

Hannibal Lecter: "But if you open this door, Abigail, you won’t control what comes through. Are you ready for that?"

On Abigail as she holds Hannibal’s gaze.

EXT. MINNESOTA WOODS - NIGHT

A black figure swings a pick axe, silhouetted by a silver moon, beneath a distinctive gnarled tree amidst the white snow; it’s like an illustration in an old book of fairy tales. A pick axe hits frozen dirt. Icy earth flies in chips under the assault as slowly the hard ground is broken. Dark earth stains pristine white snow.

Slowly the frozen face of Nick Boyle is uncovered from under the snow. His face - frozen with eyes still staring wide - is slowly revealed.

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY

Will Graham is watching Jimmy Price, Beverly Katz and Brian Zeller at work. They look exhausted. The board now lists more names and details of victims written alongside a large photo of the totem pole. Brian Zeller writes another name against the middle of the totem pole. Will Graham steps forward. A name is now at the base of the totem pole board. “Fletcher Marshall”

Will Graham: "The display was built in Grafton for a reason. Totem Poles commemorate special events. They tell the story of a life. If Joel Summers is his finale, then this lowest body on the pole will be our killer’s beginning. His first."

Beverly Katz: "Fletcher Marshall. Murdered in 1973. Beaten to death right in Grafton. His grave was robbed five days ago."

Will takes that in.

Will Graham: "No-one convicted of killing him?"

Jimmy Price: "Not yet."

Will Graham: "Our killer got away with it forty years ago."

Brian Zeller: "So he kept on going."

Will Graham: "There will be a connection between Joel Summers and Fletcher Marshall."

Will turns as their gaze goes past him to where Jack Crawford stands behind him.

Jack Crawford: "Will?"

He nods him out into the corridor and goes. Will looks at the others and follows.

INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORD’S OFFICE - DAY

Jack behind his desk. Hannibal, Will and Alana Bloom sit in chairs opposite.

Jack Crawford: "Nicholas Boyle turned up in Minnesota -- Dead. He was found in the woods. Frozen. And then he thawed out pretty fast. They couldn’t say if he died this week or six weeks ago. Or the night he disappeared."

They all look surprised. Hannibal hides his shock and concern. Alana speaks first.

Alana Bloom: "How did he die?"

Jack Crawford: "Knife wound. He’d been gutted."

Hannibal doesn’t move but his senses are on high alert now.

Jack Crawford: "Had the body flown down here. I want Abigail Hobbs to identify it."

Hannibal Lecter: "You already have a positive i.d."

Jack Crawford: "Not by Abigail Hobbs."

Alana Bloom: "You can’t put her in a room with Nick Boyle’s body. She already has nightmares about him."

Jack Crawford: "I’m curious why."

Hannibal follows this with interest.

Will Graham: "You can’t seriously think she had anything to do with this?"

Jack Crawford: "I think she’s the common denominator. Her father, Marissa Schuur, Nick Boyle, they all come back to her. My instinct is she’s still got answers I haven’t heard."

Will Graham: "What are the questions?"

Jack Crawford: "I’ll start with where she goes when she climbs the walls at the psychiatric facility. Maybe she was meeting Nick Boyle. None of us know what was really between them."

Hannibal is tense; Will looks angry.

Alana Bloom: "I want to be on record as saying this is a very bad idea. Hannibal?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Jack has the look of a man with no interest in any opinion but his own."

Jack stands up.

Jack Crawford: "Alana. I’d like you to observe."

Will Graham: "If you’re putting Abigail in a room with the body, I want to be there."

Jack Crawford: "No. I’m not confident in your objectivity when it comes to Abigail Hobbs. Alana."

Will and Hannibal watch Jack and Alana exit. After they’re gone...

Will Graham: "He could do Abigail irreparable damage, exposing her to this."

Hannibal Lecter: "Perhaps Abigail is stronger than you think."

On Hannibal - the most to lose if Abigail isn’t strong.

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - CORRIDOR - DAY

Jack Crawford: "-- Miss Hobbs, I want you to look at this man and tell me if it’s the same one who attacked you and Dr. Bloom and Dr. Lecter in your home?"

Jack Crawford looms in front of her. Between them is a gurney with a covered corpse. Alana is by Abigail’s side. Abigail’s senses are attuned here. She fights the urge to flee. About to face her demons. Jack pulls back the sheet to reveal Nick Boyle’s naked torso. He is still recognizable but he has thawed out and decomposition is setting in fast. Lesions on his face. A pink froth is visible round his lips. The long ugly wound in his abdomen is tattered and wide, the bone of his ribs is showing round the edges where decomposition has been quicker.

Abigail Hobbs is hyper-aware of everything around her. The silence. The loud ticking of a wall clock. Her own breathing. Which she fights to control. She steps forward. The ambient hum around her grows. Stares at the man she killed.

Abigail Hobbs: "That’s him."

Jack looks at her carefully.

Jack Crawford: "I’ve got a few questions I’d like you to answer. Have you seen this man since the night he attacked you?"

Abigail looks up at Jack. Holds his gaze. Then looks down at the corpse.

Abigail Hobbs: "Could you cover him up?"

Jack Crawford: "I need you to answer the question."

When Jack doesn’t move, Alana goes to pull the sheet over the body but Jack stays her hand. Eyes never leaving Abigail. She looks at them both. Eyes shining but her voice is flat.

Abigail Hobbs: "No. I haven’t seen him since... he attacked me."

Still staring down.

Jack Crawford: "Nicholas Boyle was gutted. With a hunting knife. You knew how to do that? Your father taught you?"

Alana Bloom: "Jack, I won’t be party to this -"

Jack Crawford: "Then leave. You’re here by invitation and courtesy, Dr. Bloom. Please don’t interrupt again."

Alana is angered by this. Falls silent but doesn’t go.

Abigail Hobbs: "You think I did this?"

Jack Crawford: "Where do you go when you escape your hospital, Abigail?"

Abigail Hobbs: "Sometimes into the city. Sometimes into the woods. Sometimes just out. I go get away from this, to be alone where I can think... breathe."

Jack Crawford: "Did you meet Nicholas Boyle? Did he know you before? Did he know your father?"

Abigail Hobbs: "No."

Jack Crawford: "You know nothing about his death?"

Abigail Hobbs: "I know he tried to kill me. And when he was trying to kill me, all I could think was I was going to die in that house after all... But I didn’t. I survived. Dr. Bloom and Dr. Lecter saved my life. They saved me from him."

Jack Crawford: "You haven’t seen this man since?"

Abigail looks at them both.

Abigail Hobbs: "Only in my nightmares."

Jack says nothing.

INT. B.A.U. - CORRIDOR - DAY

Jack and Alana watch Abigail being led away.

Jack Crawford: "Do you believe her?"

Alana Bloom: "I think Abigail Hobbs is damaged. There is something she’s using every ounce of that strength to keep buried. But it’s not the murder of Nicholas Boyle."

Jack Crawford: "How can you be so sure?"

Alana Bloom: "Because any reservations I have about Abigail don’t extend to Hannibal Lecter. And he has no reason to lie about any of this."

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL’S ROOM - DAY

Hannibal stares out the window, still wearing his coat, his back to Abigail, as she shrugs off her jacket.

Hannibal Lecter: "It can be a comfort to see the broken, bloated corpse of a monster and know it can never come back."

Abigail Hobbs: "Nick Boyle wasn’t a monster."

He finally turns to look at her.

Hannibal Lecter: "Were you?"

Abigail Hobbs: "I sometimes feel like one."

Hannibal Lecter: "Is that why you uncovered his body?"

Abigail averts her eyes, her face growing still.

EXT. MINNESOTA WOODS - NIGHT

A black figure uncovers the sandy soil to reveal the still frozen eyes of dead Nicholas Boyle.

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL’S ROOM - DAY

Hannibal stares at Abigail until she finally meets his gaze.

Hannibal Lecter: "Would this be a chapter in your book, Abigail?"

Abigail Hobbs: "No, neither would killing Nick, or you helping me hide his body."

Hannibal Lecter: "There’s always an addendum."

Abigail Hobbs: "FBI already asked their questions. I answered them. I passed."

Hannibal Lecter: "With Jack Crawford’s attention."

Abigail Hobbs: "You’re right, I opened the door. I can’t control what comes through, but this time I could control when. I’m not afraid of them finding Nick Boyle anymore. He’s been found."

Hannibal Lecter: "You betrayed my trust. You jeopardized my life as well as your own. I deserve more than that."

Abigail shies away from his gaze.

Hannibal Lecter: "I need to trust you, Abigail. What if I can’t?"

And suddenly the threat is huge in the room. As Abigail looks up at Hannibal...

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY

Jack Crawford and Will Graham are mid-conversation with Jimmy Price, Brian Zeller and Beverly Katz who are waiting, excited.

Beverly Katz: "Joel Summers, the headpiece of our totem pole, was adopted after his parents died. Guess who dad was?"

Will Graham: "Fletcher Marshall. Joel Summers is Joel Marshall."

Brian Zeller: "Mother, Eleanor Marshall, died in a car accident four years after Fletcher was murdered."

Jack Crawford: "A genuine accident?"

Beverly Katz: "If she was murdered, she would be on the Totem Pole."

Will Graham: "Unless he loved her too much to disgrace her that way. He was closing a circle. Whatever wrong Fletcher Marshall committed, his boy was just as guilty."

Jimmy Price: "We did a DNA comparison between Fletcher Marshall and Joel Summers. No match."

Will and Jack are surprised.

Will Graham: "Marshall’s son wasn’t his son."

Brian Zeller: "Not biologically. But Marshall’s name is on the birth certificate."

Will is leafing through the paperwork.

Jack Crawford: "Was anyone convicted for Fletcher Marshall’s murder?"

Beverly Katz: "A man named Laurence Wells was questioned twice in 1973. Never charged and still lives in Grafton."

Will looks up from the paperwork.

Will Graham: "Is Laurence Wells color blind? Joel Marshall had anomalous trichromacy. Color blind in the green retinal receptors."

Brian Zeller: "It’s hereditary."

Will Graham: "Fletcher Marshall was a crime of passion. It had something none of the other murders had. Motive."

INT. LARRY WELLS’ HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

A knock on the door and it gently rolls open. Jack looks at Will and they draw their hand guns and push open the door. Jack and Will enter, guns at the ready.

Larry Wells: "In here. I’m unarmed."

Jack slides, gun first into the living room to find Laurence Wells, 70, trim, lean, sitting in an armchair. Dressed in black. He’s a practical man, his life already packed up.

Jack Crawford: "You were expecting us."

Laurence Wells puts his hands on the arms of the chair. Smiles.

Laurence Wells: "I had every faith you’d find me."

Will Graham: "And why is that Mr. Wells?"

Laurence Wells: "Because I let you. That last one was... let’s just say it’s a good thing it was the last one. I don’t have the fight in me anymore."

Jack Crawford: "Are you confessing to the murder of Joel Summers?"

Laurence Wells: "And Fletcher Marshall and fifteen others. I assume you got them all counted up by now."

Will Graham: "You killed Joel Summers just so you’d get caught."

Laurence Wells: "Not just. I killed Joel Summers because he should have never been."

Jack Crawford: "What reason did you have to kill the others?"

Laurence Wells: "I had every reason to kill them, they just had no reason to die. No one ever saw me coming unless I wanted them to see me coming. I could smile and wave at a lady, chew the fat in church, knowing I’d killed her husband. There’s something beautiful about sitting in the ball of silence at a funeral, all of those people around you and knowing you made it happen."

Jack Crawford: "You’re going to die in prison."

Laurence Wells smiles.

Laurence Wells: "Do I look wealthy to you? Prison will be a luxury next to the sort of retirement home I can afford. And I certainly won’t be forgotten there. I’m securing my legacy."

Will Graham: "It’s one way to be remembered. No children to tell your story. Did Joel Summers remember his father?"

Laurence Wells: "Not anymore."

Jack Crawford: "Did you have an affair with Eleanor Marshall before you killed her? I’ll assume from your silent hesitation that is a yes."

Will Graham: "He’s your son. Joel Summers."

Laurence Wells: "What?"

Will Graham: "You thought the woman you loved was having Fletcher Marshall’s baby when she should’ve been having yours."

Jack Crawford: "You were wrong."

Will Graham: "Eleanor chose to raise him as Fletcher Marshall’s child rather than yours. Maybe she saw what’s in your heart."

Jack Crawford: "You didn’t secure your legacy, Mr. Wells, you murdered it."

Will Graham: "Your only act as a father was to destroy your son."

Laurence Wells is silent, the truth of this hitting him hard.

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - NIGHT

The lights are low, the room dark, a curtain wrapped around the metal table displaying Nick Boyle's corpse. Will Graham looks over the body, sees the bloodless gash in his torso, ribs poking out where decomposition has taken hold. Nick Boyle comes towards Will. His face grey and marked by lesions. Will then closes his eyes.

The morgue darkens, the light reflected on the curtains shifts and changes tone. We are entering the landscape of Will's mind. Will opens his eyes and watches as Nick Boyle's corpse sits upright and swings his legs off the slab. His feet stretch to the floor, but they are now wearing boots. He is fully clothed, dressed as he was the night he died. He stands and is face-to-face with Will.

And then Nick Boyle looks agonized. He and Will look down to see Will holds a knife in Nick Boyle’s wound. Will Graham blinks slowly. He looks down and sees that now the knife sticks out of Will's torso. Held by bloody hands.

He has reversed positions with Nick Boyle. Will looks up from the knife in his guts to find it is held by Abigail Hobbs. Will stares at Abigail. He blinks.

We are back to reality alone with Nick Boyle’s body.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE/WAITING ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal watches Will Graham, who stares into middle-distance. An overwhelming sadness hangs over him.

Will Graham: "Abigail Hobbs killed Nick Boyle."

Hannibal holds his gaze.

Hannibal Lecter: "Yes, I know."

Will Graham: "Tell me why you know."

Hannibal Lecter: "I helped her dispose of the body."

Will Graham: "Evidently not well enough."

Hannibal Lecter: "Have you told Jack Crawford?"

Will Graham: "No."

Hannibal Lecter: "Why not?"

Will Graham: "I was hoping it wasn’t true."

Hannibal Lecter: "Now you know the truth."

Will Graham: "Do I?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Everything you know about that night is true. Except the end. Nicholas Boyle attacked us. Abigail’s only crime was to defend herself and I lied about it."

Will Graham: "Why?"

Hannibal Lecter: "You know why. Jack Crawford would hang her for what her father’s done. The world would burn Abigail in his place. That would be the story. That would be what Freddie Lounds writes. Abigail is no more a killer than you are for shooting her father or I am for the death of Tobias Budge."

Will is moved but fights his instinct as a cop.

Will Graham: "It’s not our place to decide."

Hannibal Lecter: "If not ours, then whose? Who knows Abigail better than you and I? Or the burden she bears? We are her fathers now. We have to serve her better than Garret Jacob Hobbs."

Hannibal crosses to his drawing table. Scalpel within reach.

Hannibal Lecter: "If you go to Jack, then you murder Abigail’s future. If she is ever to have the life she deserves, then we have to tell no one."

Will nods his head, barely aware he’s doing it.

Hannibal Lecter: "Do I need to call my lawyer?"

Will looks up. A long beat. Then he shakes his head.

Hannibal Lecter: "What we’re doing here is the right thing, Will. For Abigail. In time, this will be the only story any of us cares to tell."

Will sits and Hannibal places a hand on his shoulder.

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Three sets of cutlery slice through delicately garnished plates of food, cutting meat that leaks red juices. A fourth knife and fork works through salad leaves.

Hannibal Lecter: "I feel terrible, Miss Lounds. Never entered my head you might be a vegetarian. A lapse on my behalf."

Freddie Lounds sits next to Abigail at Hannibal’s table. Hannibal is at the head with Will opposite Freddie. Abigail eats with her head down. Hannibal watches Will.

Freddie Lounds: "Or a subtle way to set the power dynamic for this little soiree. Research always delivers benefits."

Will Graham: "And if it contradicts a good story, hell, just publish it anyway?"

Freddie Lounds: "Are you still angry because I called you insane? The libel laws are clear, Mr. Graham."

Will Graham: "Insinuation is such a grey area."

Freddie Lounds: "Insane isn’t really black and white, is it? We’re all pathological in our own ways."

Will Graham: "You decide on the version of the truth that suits you and then pursue it pathologically."

Freddie Lounds: "Everybody decides their our own versions of the truth. I’m here because I want to tell Abigail’s version of the truth."

Will Graham: "See that you do."

Abigail Hobbs: "I don’t have anything to hide."

Freddie Lounds: "Everybody has something to hide, but I’m not going to write about anything you don’t want me to."

Will looks at her, bites his tongue.

Hannibal Lecter: "You must understand our concerns. We care about Abigail. Our only thought is to protect her."

Will looks at Hannibal and then looks at Abigail before looking down. Still struggling with his new knowledge.

Freddie Lounds: "She’s already exposed. Her silence until now has been taken as guilt. This book is about her innocence. I want Abigail to have a future."

Will Graham: "That’s what we all want."

Freddie Lounds: "Then we aren’t so different after all, Mr. Graham."

Hannibal Lecter: "We all want what’s best for Abigail."

He smiles at them all, Will looks down. Freddie leans back.

Freddie Lounds: "This is possibly the finest salad I’ve ever eaten in my life. Shame to ruin it with all that meat."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Hands wash the dirty plates. Pass them across the sink. Hannibal and Abigail washing the dishes in silence. Abigail dries and sighs. Deep breath.

Abigail Hobbs: "Will knows, doesn’t he?"

Hannibal Lecter: "He knows you killed Nicholas Boyle."

Abigail Hobbs: "What am I going to do?"

Hannibal Lecter: "He will keep our secret."

Abigail Hobbs: "You don’t know that."

Hannibal Lecter: "He will keep it because otherwise the one good thing in his life is tainted. He will lie to Jack Crawford about you just as he has lied to himself."

She shudders and silent tears fall. It’s like all the adrenalin and tension is finally leaving her body.

Hannibal Lecter: "You’re safe, Abigail. No-one will know what you did. And no-one will know the truth you’re trying to avoid. The one you cannot admit even to yourself."

Hannibal waits. Abigail takes another plate. Dries it. Puts it down and then just leans against the sink, head down.

Abigail Hobbs: "I helped him."

Hannibal Lecter: "I can’t hear you."

A sudden sob from Abigail.

Abigail Hobbs: "I helped him."

And then she starts to cry, a storm of tears a long time coming. A wave of self-loathing and pent-up fear.

Abigail Hobbs: "I knew what my father was. I knew what he did. I knew. I was the one who met the girls, talked to them. Laughed and joked. Found out where they lived, where they were going, when they’d be alone. Girls who looked like me. They could have been my friends. I couldn’t tell him no."

Abigail is totally broken down here, the horror of what she was made to do hitting home.

Abigail Hobbs: "I knew... I knew it was them or me."

She looks at Hannibal, pleading, raw, broken. And now he comes to her and holds her. Strokes her hair.

Hannibal Lecter: "I wondered when you’d tell me."

Abigail Hobbs: "How long have you --"

Hannibal Lecter: "I always suspected."

Abigail Hobbs: "I’m a monster."

Hannibal Lecter: "No. I know what monsters are... you’re a victim and Will Graham and I, we’re going to protect you..."

INT. TRAIN - DAY (FLASHBACK)

Abigail Hobbs stops at a table and smiles down at Elise Nichols.

Abigail Hobbs: "Mind if I sit?"

Elise Nichols: "Go ahead."

Abigail Hobbs: "I hate traveling by myself."

Elise Nichols: "I love it."

Abigail Hobbs: "Where you going?"

They could be sisters. As Abigail sits and they smile at each other, Garret Jacob Hobbs is sitting a few seats down the aisle.

EXT. TRAIN - DAY - (FLASHBACK)

The train rattles along and through the window we see Abigail and Elise talking and laughing at the table.

INT. TRAIN - DAY - (FLASHBACK)

Garret Jacob Hobbs watches them. His eye catches Abigail’s gaze for a second as Elise Nichols laughs, unaware of what awaits.