INT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - AFTERNOON

The door opens and Bedelia Du Maurier, a beautiful woman in her 40’s, speaks to her patient.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Hello. Please come in."

Her patient is Hannibal Lecter.

INT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - AFTERNOON

Hannibal sits opposite Bedelia, who doesn’t mince words.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "This always goes better if I’m perfectly honest with you."

Hannibal Lecter: "What would be the point otherwise."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Well, one of us has to be honest."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m honest."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Not perfectly."

Hannibal Lecter: "As honest as anyone."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Not really. I have conversations with a version of you and hope the actual you gets what he needs."

Hannibal Lecter: "A version of me?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Naturally, I respect its meticulous construction, but you are wearing a very well tailored person suit."

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you refer to me as Person Suit with your psychiatrist friends?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I don’t discuss patients with my psychiatrist friends, especially since I only have one patient who chose to ignore my retirement."

Hannibal Lecter: "A patient who wears a Person Suit."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I can still see the shape of you, but you’re elegantly obstructed. So really, it’s less of a person suit and more of a human veil."

Hannibal Lecter: "I prefer we call it a human shield."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "That must be lonely."

Hannibal Lecter: "I have friends. And the opportunities for friends."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "On the other side of the veil."

Hannibal Lecter: "You and I are friendly."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You’re my patient and my colleague, not my friend. When your hour is up I’ll pour you a glass of wine, nevertheless you’ll be drinking it on the other side of the veil."

Hannibal Lecter: "Why do you bother?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I see enough of you to see the truth of you. And I like you."

Hannibal smiles, liking her as she opens a small wine closet.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Red or white."

Hannibal Lecter: "I think something pink, don’t you?"

A gush of whiskey swirls around the bottom of a glass.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Will Graham lies with dogs, enjoying three fingers of juice. The space heater in the fireplace emits a warm halo around the pack as Will works over the innards of the boat motor. Will stops working, listening. He eyes the dogs, they don’t react, going about their leisure.

Will returns to work. A distant, almost imperceptible cry. Will stops again. He glances at the dogs, they still don’t react. Another whimper. Just as far away, but louder. Whatever it is, it’s desperate. Will stands, shrugs on a coat and grabs a flashlight.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - FRONT PORCH - NIGHT

Will walks onto the front porch, closing the door so the dogs can’t follow him. He listens. An even more frantic cry. Will hurries off the porch in the direction of the distress.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - FIELD - NIGHT

Will wades into the darkness, his flashlight growing fainter. The crying is more intense now. It rises and falls, growing louder and softer as Will searches, wincing at the horrible sound of the high-pitched, fear-induced whines. Then a sudden quiet. Will holds his breath, listening, shining his flashlight in the direction of the last, sad whimper. Nothing.

He stands there a moment, unsure what to do. A discordant cello note strikes.

INT. CHORDOPHONE STRING SHOP - MORNING

The discordant sound travels through a densely populated store front filled with guitars, sitars, rebabs, bass, violin, viola cello, mandolins and harps.

INT. CHORDOPHONE STRING SHOP - PARLOR - CONTINUOUS

Behind the store front, a small room for private lessons. A Pre-Teen Cello Player strikes the discordant note and his teacher, Tobias Budge, winces then politely smiles, encouraging.

Pre-Teen Cello Player: "These strings are harder to bow than the regular ones."

Tobias Budge: "You have to learn how to bow authentic strings to better bow strings how they’re made today."

Pre-Teen Cello Player: "I should be learning the easy strings first, then the hard ones."

Tobias Budge: "No, you shouldn’t."

Pre-Teen Cello Player: "Are they really made from cat guts?"

Tobias Budge: "Usually sheep or goat. Not always."

A cinematic chronicle in reverse motion reveals the origin story of the cello strings: The string un-stretches, removed from the cello. The string untwists into sinewy intestinal strands. A bloody heap of intestines is pulled into an open abdominal wound. The abdominal wound closes behind a sharp tool. A bound and gagged man’s dead eyes reverse into life.

Time and motion returns to normal. The sharp tool slashes. Intestines spill out of the open wound. The gagged man muffles a scream as his eyes roll into death.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - FIELD - MORNING

Will Graham trounces through stark, bare branches slicing the early morning sun. As Will scans the forest floor around him, Alana Bloom searches the underbrush, as well.

Will Graham: "If it wasn’t a coyote, the coyotes probably got it. Probably got it even if it was a coyote."

Alana Bloom: "You’re not expecting to find it alive, are you?"

Will Graham: "We’ll be lucky to find a paw."

Alana Bloom: "If I knew we were looking for a paw, I’d’ve been looking closer."

Will Graham: "I just want to get rid of anything that might attract predators."

Alana Bloom: "You invited me over to help you collect animal parts?"

Will Graham: "I invited you over on the off chance we find it alive. Hard to wrangle a wounded animal by myself. Did you think it was a date?"

Alana Bloom: "Honestly, it never crossed my mind."

Will is at first relieved, then almost disappointed.

Will Graham: "Why not?"

Alana Bloom: "You just don’t seem like you date."

Will Graham: "Too broken to date."

Alana Bloom: "You’re not broken. You’re puzzled."

Will Graham: "I am puzzled. What’s your excuse?"

Alana Bloom: "For not dating? Why are you assuming I don’t date?"

Will Graham: "Do you?"

Alana Bloom: "No. Feels like something for somebody else. I’m sure I’ll become that somebody some day but right now I think too much."

Will Graham: "It’s hard to date when you notice everything they do and have a pretty good idea why they do it."

Alana Bloom: "Worse than dating a psychiatrist is being a psychiatrist dating."

Will Graham: "Are you going to try to think less or wait until it happens naturally?"

Alana Bloom: "I haven’t thought about it."

Will stops, puzzling over the icy underbrush around them.

Alana Bloom: "See something?"

Will glances around, making certain before he answers.

Will Graham: "No, actually. I don’t even see any tracks. Except the ones we made."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - DAY

The door opens and Hannibal speaks to his next patient.

Hannibal Lecter: "Good morning. Please come in."

Franklyn Froideveaux is waiting.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

An inscrutable Hannibal sits across from Franklyn.

Franklyn Froideveaux: "I have a lot of respect for you and what you do. Since I can’t be your friend, or you’re not comfortable with that, I found myself looking at my friends through your eyes. Imagining what you’d say about them. What your diagnosis would be."

Hannibal Lecter: "So you become the psychoanalyst?"

Franklyn Froideveaux: "Little bit. Or I become you."

Hannibal Lecter: "That’s an insightful observation."

Franklyn Froideveaux: "You helped me get to know myself."

Hannibal Lecter: "Who are you psychoanalyzing?"

Franklyn Froideveaux: "My friend Tobias. I Googled psychopaths. Went down the checklist and was a little surprised how many boxes I checked."

Hannibal smiles at Franklyn’s internet psychoanalysis.

Hannibal Lecter: "Why were you so curious to Google?"

Franklyn Froideveaux: "He’s been saying very dark things and then saying just kidding. A lot. Started to seem kinda crazy. Or is that like saying retarded now. Are you allowed to say crazy?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Psychopaths are not crazy. They’re fully aware of what they do and the consequences of those actions."

Franklyn Froideveaux: "Would you diagnose somebody like Tobias as a psychopath."

Hannibal Lecter: "I might diagnose him with an antisocial personality disorder."

Franklyn Froideveaux: "What kind of disorder is that? Are you supposed to diagnose other people in front of me? Or would you rather just talk about me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Not at all."

Franklyn Froideveaux: "Are you bored with me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "This is your hour, Franklyn. We will talk about whatever you would like to talk about."

Franklyn Froideveaux: "I want to talk about Tobias. Maybe you can help me analyze him."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m not analyzing your friend. I’m analyzing your perception of him. May help you know yourself better. You could be projecting onto him what you consider to be your flaws."

Franklyn is suddenly haunted by a thought.

Franklyn Froideveaux: "Does that mean I’m a psychopath?"

Hannibal Lecter: "You’re not a psychopath. Although you may be attracted to them."

Franklyn considers that, clueless to the entirety of its meaning.

A dead man's vacant stare. His mouth is agape, broken teeth, head held upright by the neck of a violin jammed down his gullet. His throat is open, cut horizontally below the Adam’s apple and vertically down the middle splayed open as if for dissection, the flaps of flesh affixed to metal rings.

INT. CONCERT HALL - AUDITORIUM - DAY

The Dead Man sits in a kneeling ergonomic chair duct-taped to a back brace that holds him in an upright position. The Dead Man is alone center stage, the theater is empty save for Will Graham and Jack Crawford. They walk down the aisle, approaching the corpse, curious. Various Police Officers, F.B.I., Brian Zeller, Jimmy Price and Beverly Katz stand near the lobby doors, observing.

Jack Crawford: "Victim is Douglas Wilson, member of the Baltimore Metropolitan Orchestra. Brass section. Trombone player."

Will Graham: "Low brass. Was he any good?"

Jack Crawford: "He was killed sometime after his last performance. Blunt force trauma to the back of the head."

Will Graham: "His killer brought him back here to put on a show."

Jack Crawford: "Got some idea about who’d do this?"

Will shakes two aspirin out of bottle, tosses them back.

Will Graham: "I may be courting that feeling that precedes an idea."

Jack Crawford: "Seems like it’s getting easier for you to look."

Will Graham: "I tell myself it’s purely an intellectual exercise."

Jack Crawford: "In the narrow definition of forensics, that’s what it is."

Will Graham: "But it’s not getting easier, Jack. I shake it off and keep looking."

Jack Crawford: "Good. You shake it off. You’re all wired. I’ll come back in when you tell me."

Jack turns, climbing down from the stage. A Police Officer pulls the auditorium doors closed behind Jack. The other set of doors are closed by another local Police Officer. Will Graham is now alone. He crosses the stage, circles the Dead Man. He takes a breath, exhales, then closes his eyes.

A pendulum swings in the darkness of Will Graham’s mind, keeping rhythm with his heart beat. FWUM. FWUM.

Will walks backward, away from the Dead Man, toward the lip of the stage. He climbs down and sits in the front row. FWUM. The pendulum is now outside Will’s head. FWUM. FWUM. It swings through frame, bringing down the house lights, plunging the seats of the auditorium into relative darkness. FWUM.

INT. CHORDOPHONE STRING SHOP - BASEMENT

A dark, indistinct space. Only Will and the Dead Man.

FWUM. The butterfly wings of the throat wound close, wrapping around neck and sealing the flesh together.

The pendulum stops swinging.

Will watches the bound and gagged man secured to the chair. The soon-to-be-Dead Man struggles against his bindings as Will emerges from the darkness and brings down a mallet on the back of his head, knocking his head violently forward.

Will Graham: "I open the throat from the outside. Three incisions, one to bleed him, second to open the trachea and a third to expose the vocal chords."

Will makes the incisions, slicing out a disc of trachea.

Will Graham: "I open the throat from inside with the neck of a violin."

Will places a violin neck into the Dead Man’s open mouth, pushing it down his neck, until he can see the end of it through the opening he’s made. This draws Will’s attention to the powdery white residue on the victim’s throat.

Will Graham: "Powder on the wounds."

He looks out on the meticulously designed acoustic space.

Will Graham: "It’s rosin from a bow."

Beverly Katz gently thumps the hairs of a bow, creating a light cloud of powder drifting on the air.

Beverly Katz: "That’s exactly what it is."

Will stands behind the corpse holding a string bow, back in the character of the killer.

Will Graham: "I wanted to play him. I wanted to create a sound."

He raises the bow to the dead man’s open throat.

Will Graham: "This sound wasn’t for you or from you. It was from me. My sound. This is my design."

He runs the bow across the exposed and presented vocal chords, wrapped around the small end of the hearing horn intubator, emitting a single chilling note.

Will Graham: "I give voice to death."

Will Graham bows the dead man’s throat creating an eerie, incandescent sound... until he finds Garret Jacob Hobbs sitting alone. Will abruptly stops playing, then realizes no one else is there.

INT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - AFTERNOON

Hannibal sits opposite Bedelia, who listens as he speaks.

Hannibal Lecter: "I worry I’ve made Franklyn feel powerless. His obsession with me is interfering with his progress."

She doesn’t engage as much as wait, drawing Hannibal out.

Hannibal Lecter: "He wants to be my friend."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Are these the opportunities for friendship you spoke about?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m considering referring him to another doctor."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Referrals can be complicated. I referred you to another psychiatrist. You refused."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m more tenacious than Franklyn."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Why were you so tenacious?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I feel protective of you."

His admission makes her feel uncomfortable, but she hides it.

Hannibal Lecter: "You support me as my colleague and psychiatrist and as a human being, I want to be supportive of you."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I’m not the only psychiatrist who’s ever been attacked by a patient."

Hannibal Lecter: "I hesitated to even bring up the subject of an obsessive patient because of your experience."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Can’t allow what happened to me to interfere with your progress."

Hannibal Lecter: "You do."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Hannibal. I’m your psychiatrist, you’re not mine."

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY

Beverly Katz uses magnifying goggles as she examines the open throat wounds with a small plastic instrument. Brian Zeller leans over the exposed vocal chords. Jimmy Price cranes his neck to get a better look over both their shoulders. Will Graham maintains a short distance from the body, hovering nearby.

Brian Zeller: "Played him like a fiddle."

Jimmy Price: "Doesn’t seem like he was playing."

Beverly Katz: "Along with rosin powder, we found sodium carbonate, sulfur dioxide, lye and olive oil in the wounds."

Brian Zeller: "What’s up with the olive oil?"

Jimmy Price: "He wasn’t making a salad."

Brian Zeller: "Removed anything non-muscular or fatty around the vocal folds. Chords themselves have been treated with a sulfur dioxide solution."

Beverly plucks a very fine hair from the tissue.

Beverly Katz: "Applied with a squirrel hair brush. Of squirrel, not for squirrel."

Jimmy Price: "Sulfur dioxide had the effect of hardening the vocal chords."

From across the room, Will looks closely at the Dead Man.

Will Graham: "Made them easier to play."

All sound is dulled and finally over-taken by the sustained chord he struck earlier playing the Dead Man’s throat. Will winces at the din of sound growing in his head. He focuses through it, staring at the Dead Man on the table.

Will Graham: "Had to open you up to get a decent sound out of you."

Sound returns to normal as Zeller, Price and Katz give Will a slow glance. He shakes off the ringing tone in his ears.

Beverly Katz: "You pick it up and can’t play it, he’ll put you down and play you."

Brian Zeller: "He took the time to whiten the vocal chords before he played them. That’s not very contemptuous."

Will Graham: "It wasn’t about whitening them. It was about increasing elasticity."

Beverly Katz: "He’s treating the vocal chords the same way you’d treat catgut string. Yes, I played the violin."

Will Graham: "We should be looking at musicians, people who make instruments, anyone who had a ticket to his last show."

Will stares at the human instrument on the morgue table.

Will Graham: "This takes a steady hand. A confidence. He’s killed before."

Jimmy Price: "Like this?"

Will Graham: "Not like this. This is a skilled musician trying a new instrument."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal studies a pensive Will Graham as he observes.

Hannibal Lecter: "Among the first musical instruments were flutes carved from human bone."

Will Graham: "This murder was a performance."

Hannibal Lecter: "Every life is a piece of music. Like music, we are finite events, unique arrangements. Sometimes harmonious, sometimes dissonant."

Will Graham: "Sometimes not worth hearing again."

Hannibal Lecter: "He’s a poet and a psychopath."

Will Graham: "And a craftsman. He was shrinking and tanning the vocal chords."

Hannibal Lecter: "Like turning iron wire into musical steel string. Was there olive oil?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

Hannibal Lecter: "Whatever sound he was trying to produce, it was an authentic one."

Will Graham: "Authentic?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Olive oil hasn’t been used in the production of catgut for over a century. It was said to increase the life of the strings and create a sweeter, more melodic sound."

That doesn’t sit well with Will.

Will Graham: "I can hear what he was playing behind my eyes, when I close them."

Hannibal Lecter: "What do you see behind closed eyes?"

Will considers how to answer Hannibal’s question, then decides to do it honestly.

Will Graham: "I see myself."

Hannibal ponders the deeper meaning of that, studying Will.

Hannibal Lecter: "You said the killer was performing. Who was he performing for?"

Will Graham: "I don’t know. Patron of the arts. Fellow musician. Or another killer."

Hannibal Lecter: "It’s a serenade."

Will Graham: "One night only."

Hannibal Lecter: "No repeat performance?"

Will Graham: "This isn’t how he kills. How he kills, he doesn’t get caught."

Hannibal Lecter: "You believe he risked getting caught for a serenade?"

Will Graham: "I believe he wants to show someone how well he plays."

Hannibal Lecter: "Intriguing."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - THE NEXT MORNING

Hannibal now sits across from Franklyn.

Franklyn Froideveaux: "Remember when I said Tobias was saying dark things?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I made note of it."

Franklyn Froideveaux: "He said he was gonna cut somebody’s throat and play it like a violin."

Hannibal stares at Franklyn, studying him.

Franklyn Froideveaux: "They found somebody whose throat was cut and played like a violin."

Hannibal Lecter: "Franklyn, do you think Tobias killed that man at the symphony?"

Franklyn Froideveaux: "I don’t know. I don’t -- I don’t -- If I do, do I have to report it?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you have reason not to?"

Franklyn Froideveaux: "What if I’m wrong?"

Hannibal Lecter: "What if you’re right?"

Franklyn Froideveaux: "I’m wrong all the time. Why would he say something like that to me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Why do you think?"

Franklyn takes longer to say it than to think it.

Franklyn Froideveaux: "Because he knew I would tell you."

EXT. CHORDOPHONE STRING SHOP - DAY

Hannibal slows as he approaches the front door, hearing a haunting melody dancing off violin strings somewhere inside.

INT. CHORDOPHONE STRING SHOP - DAY

Densely stocked with string instruments of all varieties. The door opens and Hannibal’s hand quickly slips through the crack, gently silencing the bell above before it can ring. He stands inside the door, listening to the haunting strings.

Until they abruptly stop. Hannibal allows the bell to ring as he closes the door. Tobias Budge enters from the back room to find Hannibal admiring the strings of a displayed instrument.

Tobias Budge: "You’re Franklyn’s therapist. Dr. Lecter. Nice to see you again."

Hannibal feigns an attempt at remembering his name.

Hannibal Lecter: "Is it Tobias?"

Tobias Budge: "Yes."

Hannibal Lecter: "Your strings are all gut."

Tobias Budge: "I also carry steel and polymer strings, if you prefer."

Hannibal Lecter: "I prefer gut. Harps found in the tombs of Thebes strung with gut still made music after 2000 years. Wonderful music you were making."

Tobias Budge: "I didn’t hear you ring the bell."

Hannibal Lecter: "I didn’t want you to stop playing. Was it an original composition?"

Tobias Budge: "Something I’ve been writing. You compose?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I discover. Can’t impose traditional composition on an instrument that’s inherently free form."

Tobias Budge: "What instrument would that be?"

Hannibal Lecter: "The theremin."

Tobias Budge: "Instruments speak volumes about the musician playing them. Especially one that doesn’t require touch."

Hannibal Lecter: "Theremin isn’t the only instrument I play, but it is one of my favorites. It can generate any pitch throughout its range, even those between conventional notes."

Tobias Budge: "So can a violin or a trombone."

Hannibal Lecter: "Are those your instruments?"

Tobias Budge: "The violin. Not the trombone."

Hannibal Lecter: "It seems we’re both comfortable playing between conventional notes. Too bad you don’t play the sliphorn. I hear the Orchestra is looking for a new trombonist."

Tobias Budge: "Altogether horrible what happened."

Hannibal Lecter: "Not altogether. It’s an unfortunate way to leave the symphony, yes, but I can’t help thinking the orchestra will be better for it."

Tobias studies Hannibal, realizing he’s being baited.

Tobias Budge: "At least the brass section. What brings you here looking for gut?"

Hannibal Lecter: "My harpsichord needs new strings. It’s making an awful noise. Perhaps you could help?"

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Will Graham ties a fly, hearing the distant strains of the haunting music from the amphitheater. Frustrated, he drops the hook, covers his ears, and the music fades. Then he hears a faint scratching noise. Will’s eyes open, staring into middle distance as he listens.

Another scratch-scratch. Will looks at the dogs, who sleep soundly. Scratch-scratch. Will opens the front door and listens. Scratch. There’s nothing outside. Will scans the front porch and yard before finally closing the door.

Scratch-scratch-scratch. The dogs still don’t react, even as Will steps over them, searching for the source of the scratching in the house. Will approaches the chimney wall above the fireplace. He presses his ear against the brick and listens. Nothing.

Then scratch-scratch-scratch.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - NIGHT

A gaping, jagged hole in a chimney, surrounded by ruptured plaster and dry wall. Alana Bloom, still wearing her coat, and Will Graham, covered in dust and soot, gaze in at the jagged hole in the chimney. The dogs are all resting on Will’s bed on the other side of the room.

Alana Bloom: "What kind of animal was it?"

Will Graham: "Might’ve been a raccoon."

Alana Bloom: "Might’ve been?"

Will Graham: "By the time I knocked a hole in the chimney, it crawled out the top."

Alana considers Will as surreptitiously as possible. Nevertheless Will notices her studied glance.

Alana Bloom: "Well, at least it got out."

Will Graham: "What are you doing out?"

Alana Bloom: "Thought I’d make some noise and shoo away any predators at your door but looks like you were making plenty of noise all by yourself."

She nudges a river rock part of the chimney’s structure. Will eyes Alana a moment, curious.

Will Graham: "You avoided being in a room alone with me, essentially, since I met you. You were smooth about it, too."

Alana Bloom: "Evidently not smooth enough."

Will Graham: "Now you’re making house calls."

Alana Bloom: "It’s just a drive-by. On my way home. Since you’re not my patient."

Will Graham: "No, I’m not."

Will pulls her closer and he brings his lips to hers in a kiss. Alana’s mind reels for a split second before she returns the kiss. A moment of genuine, careless passion and then Alana’s brow furrows. She breaks off the kiss.

Alana Bloom: "I’m confused."

Will Graham: "You have to stop thinking so much."

Alana Bloom: "I can stop the thinking if we’re not... But if we’re..."

Will Graham: "Intimate."

Alana Bloom: "The way I am in relationships, not that this is a relationship, it’s just a kiss, a great kiss, but the way I am isn’t compatible with...."

Will Graham: "The way I am."

Alana Bloom: "I wouldn’t be good for you. You wouldn’t be good for me. “We” wouldn’t be good for either of us."

She eyes the pile of debris in front of the fireplace.

Alana Bloom: "I wouldn’t be able to stop analyzing. I have a professional curiosity about you."

He kisses her again. She doesn’t resist.

Will Graham: "I’m not your patient."

Alana Bloom: "If I were my patient, my advice to me would be... don’t do this. I have to take my own advice. I’m going to go ahead and go now. Good night, Will."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal pours Tobias a glass of wine, he smells and sips.

Hannibal Lecter: "A late harvest Vidal from Linden."

Tobias Budge: "Virginia? I thought it was French."

Hannibal Lecter: "The Virginia wine revolution is upon us. I apologize for being so blunt, Tobias, but I have to ask... did you kill that trombonist?"

Tobias Budge: "Do you really have to ask?"

Hannibal Lecter: "No. Just changing the subject."

Tobias Budge: "Franklyn gave you my message."

Hannibal Lecter: "The murder is being investigated by the FBI. They’re going to find you."

Tobias Budge: "Let them."

Hannibal Lecter: "You want to be caught?"

Tobias Budge: "I want them to try. They may question me because I own a string shop. They’d send two men to conduct an interview, I’d kill them. Then I would find Franklyn, kill him. Then I would disappear."

Hannibal Lecter: "Don’t kill Franklyn."

Tobias Budge: "I’ve been looking forward to it. Actually, I was going to kill you."

Hannibal Lecter: "Of course you were. I’m lean. Lean animals yield the toughest gut."

Tobias Budge: "I make my own string. Tell anyone who asks, it’s imported from Italy."

Hannibal Lecter: "What stopped you from wanting to kill me? Or have you stopped?"

Tobias Budge: "I stopped after I followed you one night. Out of town. Out of state. To a lonely road. To a bus yard."

Hannibal’s face goes still.

Tobias Budge: "Have you ever wanted to get caught? To see what would happen?"

Hannibal Lecter: "You’re reckless, Tobias."

Tobias Budge: "I’m not going to tell anyone what I saw you do and do well. So my recklessness doesn’t concern you."

Hannibal Lecter: "It concerns me because you won’t be drawing attention just to yourself."

Tobias Budge: "I could use a friend. Someone who can understand me. Who thinks like I do, and can see the world and the people in it the way I do."

Hannibal Lecter: "I know exactly how you feel. But I don’t want to be your friend."

Tobias Budge: "Then why would you invite me to dinner? It wasn’t just to re-string your harpsichord."

Hannibal Lecter: "I was going to kill you."

Tobias glances at his food, then back to Hannibal.

Hannibal Lecter: "I didn’t poison you, Tobias. I wouldn’t do that to the food."

The doorbell rings.

Tobias Budge: "Expecting someone?"

Hannibal Lecter: "No."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - MUD ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal opens the door to reveal Will Graham, shaking off his raincoat in the mud room.

Will Graham: "I kissed Alana Bloom."

Hannibal blinks almost imperceptibly.

Hannibal Lecter: "Come in."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal leads Will into the room, surreptitiously looking for Tobias. Will notices the half-eaten meals as Hannibal shuts the garden door, locks it and pulls the shades before Will can see the footsteps in the snow outside.

Will Graham: "Did you have a guest?"

Hannibal Lecter: "A colleague. You just missed him."

Hannibal clears the plates with the half-eaten meals.

Will Graham: "Didn’t finish his dinner."

Hannibal Lecter: "An urgent call of some sort. Had to leave suddenly. This benefits you because I have dessert for two."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Hannibal whisks whipped cream and tosses a dollop on two Ramekins overflowing with an exotic bread pudding.

Hannibal Lecter: "Tell me, what was Alana’s reaction?"

Will Graham: "She said she wouldn’t be good for me and I wouldn’t be good for her."

Hannibal Lecter: "I don’t disagree. She would feel an obligation to her field of study to observe you. And you would resent her for it."

Will Graham: "I know."

Hannibal Lecter: "Wondering then why you kissed her and felt compelled to drive an hour in the snow to tell me about it."

Will Graham: "Wanted to kiss her since I met her."

Hannibal Lecter: "You waited a long time, which suggests you were kissing her for a reason in addition to wanting to."

Will Graham: "I heard an animal trapped in my chimney. I broke through the wall to get it out. Didn’t find anything inside. Alana showed up. She looked at me, maybe her face changed, I don’t know. She knew."

Hannibal Lecter: "What did she know, Will?"

Will Graham: "There wasn’t an animal in the chimney. It was only in my head."

Hannibal Lecter: "Did she say that?"

Will Graham: "She didn’t have to. I sleep walk. I get headaches. I’m hearing things. I feel unstable."

Hannibal Lecter: "That’s why you kissed her. A clutch for balance."

Will Graham: "Because I’m losing mine."

Hannibal Lecter: "You said yourself what you do is not good for you."

Will Graham: "Unfortunately, I’m good for it."

Hannibal Lecter: "Are you still hearing this killer’s serenade behind your eyes?"

Will Graham: "It’s our song."

Hannibal Lecter: "I hesitate telling you this as it borders on a violation of doctor-patient confidentiality. I’ve never been in this position before. A patient told me today he suspects a friend of his may be involved with the murder at the symphony."

Will Graham: "What did he say about his friend?"

Hannibal Lecter: "He owns a music store in Baltimore, specializing in string instruments. Perhaps you should interview him."

INT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal sits opposite Bedelia.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Is there someone new in your life?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I met a man much like myself, same hobbies, same world views. But I’m not interested in being his friend. I’m curious about him and that got me curious about friendship."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "That’s progress. I always considered you an individualist. The social anti-social."

Hannibal Lecter: "A polite way of saying sociopath?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I’m not sure how to categorize you in those terms. And I think you prefer it that way."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m afraid once you figure me out, you’ll lose interest."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Whose friendship are you considering?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Oddly enough, a colleague and a patient. Not unlike how I am a colleague and patient of yours. We’ve discussed him before."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Will Graham."

Hannibal Lecter: "He’s nothing like me. We see the world in different ways, yet he can assume my point of view."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "How has he demonstrated that?"

Hannibal Lecter: "He’s demonstrated the capacity."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "By profiling the criminally insane?"

Hannibal Lecter: "As good a demonstration as any. I find it reassuring."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "It’s nice to have someone see us, Hannibal. Or have the ability to see us. It requires trust. Trust isn’t easy for you."

Hannibal Lecter: "You mean, behind the veil?"

She stares -- that’s exactly what she means.

Hannibal Lecter: "You’ve helped me to better understand what I want in a friendship. And what I don’t."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Someone worthy of your friendship."

The word “worthy” rings true for Hannibal. She can see it.

Hannibal Lecter: "Yes."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You spend a lot of time building walls, Hannibal. It’s natural to want to see if anyone is clever enough to climb over them."

A snowy sky. Flakes sprinkle downward.

EXT. CHORDOPHONE STRING SHOP - DAY

Will Graham is flanked by two local Baltimore Police Officers as he approaches the front door.

INT. CHORDOPHONE STRING SHOP - DAY

The bell above the door rings as Will enters, followed by the two Baltimore Police Officers - Stewart and Dormau. Tobias is escorting the Pre-Teen Cello Player seen earlier out from the parlor behind the storefront.

Will Graham: "I’m Special Agent Will Graham with the FBI. Are you the owner here?"

Tobias Budge: "Yes, Tobias Budge. I’m just showing one of my students out. Can you give me a moment?"

Will nods. Tobias guides Pre-Teen Cello Player out the door.

Tobias Budge: "JSB’s Suite #1 for Saturday."

Pre-Teen Cello Player: "Okay."

Pre-Teen Cello Player glances over his shoulder, then exits. Tobias turns back to Will Graham and the Police Officers.

Tobias Budge: "What can I help you with?"

Will Graham: "We’re investigating the death of Douglas Wilson. He was a --"

Tobias Budge: "The Trombonist."

Will Graham: "Did you know him?"

Tobias Budge: "I was aware of him. Baltimore’s a small town and its cultural arts community is even smaller."

Tobias adjusts a display cello, loosening the balance rod.

Will Graham: "That’s why we’re here, Mr. Budge."

Tobias Budge: "I hear someone cut his throat and tried to play it with a bow."

Will Graham: "Why do you say try?"

Tobias Budge: "Strings have to be treated. You can’t just open somebody up and run a bow across their innards and expect to produce a sound."

Will hears the familiar strains of the haunting melody rising in his ears, trying to focus through it.

Will Graham: "The vocal chords were chemically treated, similar to how catgut strings are treated. We kept those details out of the press."

Tobias Budge: "Looking for someone who knows how to manufacture gut strings?"

Will Graham: "Anyone leap to mind?"

Tobias hands Will a bundle of catgut strings, but he doesn’t take his eyes off Tobias. Tobias is sensing his suspicion.

Tobias Budge: "Mine are imported from Italy. Best catgut is. The String section of the Baltimore Metropolitan Orchestra refuses to play anything else."

Will Graham: "More authentic."

Tobias Budge: "A richer, darker sound. Allows music to say what words can’t."

Then a horrible skidding noise from outside followed by a sickening thump and the pained cry of a dog. Will startles.

Tobias Budge: "Something wrong?"

Will Graham: "Sounded like a dog got hit by a car. You didn’t hear it?"

Officer Stewart: "I didn’t hear anything."

Tobias and the other Police Officer shake their heads “no,” they didn’t hear anything either. Another whimpered cry.

Will Graham: "Excuse me a minute."

Tobias strums the strings of the cello he just straightened as he watches Will cross to the door and exit.

EXT. CHORDOPHONE STRINGS SHOP - DAY

Will steps out of the shop and down the walkway, his eyes searching the street for any sign of a commotion or wounded animal. He sees nothing. He hears nothing. A Pedestrian eyes Will and keeps moving. Will shakes out aspirin into his hand and tosses them back, swallowing hard. He rubs his forehead and squints at the snow, worried. Finally, he trudges back toward the shop.

INT. CHORDOPHONE STRINGS SHOP - DAY

Will Graham enters and is quick to apologize.

Will Graham: "Sorry about that. I --"

The store is empty. Approaching the counter, he pauses.

Will Graham: "Officers. Officers."

Will simultaneously retrieves weapon and phone.

Will Graham: "I need ERT at Chordophone Strings downtown Baltimore. Officers down."

Will Graham steps behind the counter and slips into the parlor.

INT. CHORDOPHONE STRING SHOP - PARLOR - CONTINUOUS

The private room for lessons seen earlier. Will enters to find Officer Stewart tumbled over the piano bench, a cello rod jammed under his neck through the top of his head. Then suddenly, Will hears a strange noise coming from a the depths of an obscured staircase. Scratch-scratch-scratch...

Will tries to decipher the sound. Gun out in front of him, he moves into the darkness of the stairs until it swallows him.

INT. CHORDOPHONE STRING SHOP - BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

Will hugs the wall. He waits till his eyes adjust to the dim light of a single light bulb. But the smell tells him before his eyes can verify what his brain already knows. This is where Tobias Budge makes his own catgut strings.

Ropes of intestines run the length of the room, drying. Lying in long cleansing troughs of water. Cut strings lying in piles like pasta in pans on a table. An eerie and horrible maze of strings in various stages of treatment.

And then he hears it again. Scratch-scratch-scratch...

It's coming from behind an opaque curtain hanging from the ceiling in the corner of the basement. Will approaches cautiously and then slips almost falling. He glances down to see what he stepped on. It is Officer Dormau's badge in a pool of blood.

He throws back the curtain to find Officer Dormau on his knees, dangling forward, supported by a series of razor sharp wire strings cutting deep into his face and neck. The scratch-scratch-scratching sound was his intact hand swinging, rubbing against the cement floor -- while his severed and sliced hand whisks back and forth unobstructed. Scratch-scratch-scratch.

Will doesn’t allow himself to be distracted long, turning and scanning the area for any signs of Tobias Budge. A blur of movement out of the corner of Will’s eye. Tobias loops a multi-wired weapon (imagine a two brass knuckles connected by four razor sharp strings) over Will’s head.

Will raises an arm defensively over his face and throat, but the strings cut into him regardless. His gun comes up, firing next to his own ear and blowing Tobias’ ear off. The bang is deafening, literally. Will’s hearing goes dark and muddy, as he reels from the pain. He clutches his ear with his bloody hand, spinning to find Tobias clutching his own bloody ear.

Will raises the gun to fire again and... Tobias is already moving, scurrying out of sight. Will fires, missing Tobias and blowing a hole in the wall. Tobias quickly climbs the stairs and disappears. Will stands there a moment, shaking, as the ringing in his ear is slowly replaced by the ringing of sirens.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal and Franklyn are mid-session. Franklyn continues to count on his fingers, until, seven, eight, nine, and finally:

Franklyn Froideveaux: "Nine times. I can count on two hands the number of times I’ve been dumped by a psychiatrist."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m sorry, Franklyn, I think it’s best if you see another doctor."

Franklyn Froideveaux: "You’re giving me a referral."

Hannibal Lecter: "Yes."

Franklyn Froideveaux: "You were a referral."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m also part of the problem. You focus too much on your therapist and not enough on your therapy."

Franklyn Froideveaux: "You lost respect for me because I wouldn’t report Tobias, didn’t you?"

Tobias Budge: "Report Tobias for what?"

Franklyn is surprised to see Tobias standing in the doorway of the patient entrance, Hannibal less so. Tobias wears a hat and jacket to obscure his bloodied hands and clothes.

Franklyn Froideveaux: "Tobias...?"

Hannibal stands as Tobias moves into the room.

Tobias Budge: "I came to say goodbye, Franklyn."

Franklyn Froideveaux: "What do you mean goodbye? Ohmygod. Is that your blood?"

Tobias Budge: "I just killed two men. The FBI came to question me about the murder."

Hannibal blinks at that.

Franklyn Froideveaux: "You have to turn yourself in. This plane is going down. Let it be a controlled descent. You can get back up in the air again. There is rehabilitation for everyone."

Hannibal Lecter: "Franklyn, I want you to leave now."

Tobias Budge: "Stay right where you are, Franklyn."

Franklyn steps forward, trying to calm Tobias.

Franklyn Froideveaux: "You’ve done something horrible and I know you wish to god you didn’t, but you did and there’s nothing you can do to change that. Only thing you can change is your future. You’re probably scared. Probably feel like you’re all alone."

Tobias Budge: "I’m not alone."

Franklyn Froideveaux: "That’s right. You’re not alone. Nothing has happened in our friendship that you and I can’t recover from."

And with that, Hannibal has had enough and snaps Franklyn’s neck, dropping him to the ground like a cinder block. Hannibal turns his attention to Tobias.

INT. HANNIBAL'S OFFICE - DAY

Franklyn, dead on the floor. Hannibal and Tobias squaring off. No one moves.

Tobias Budge: "I was looking forward to that."

Hannibal Lecter: "I know."

We hold this incredibly tense beat. And then the phone rings. It's loud and shrill. Jarring our senses. Hannibal calmly picks up the phone and slams it into the side of Tobias’ head. Tobias recovers, slashes the air with a razor sharp piano wire whip pulled from his sleeve. Hannibal raises his forearm to block it and it shreds his coat arm.

Moving quickly, he closes the distance between them neutralizing the wire. Dropping low, he thrusts an open palm toward Tobias's mid-section, then allows his hand to glide up his nemesis's chest toward his vulnerable chin in a perfectly realized Omega punch/strike technique.

Tobias deflects the death blow at the last second and locks Hannibal's arm in an arm bar. But Hannibal uses his weight advantage against him and tosses Tobias over the desk, slamming into the support column hard. Hannibal vaults over the desk, wrapping the crook of his arm around Tobias’ throat and pulling tight.

Tobias fights to remain conscious as Hannibal locks his legs around him increasing the tension on the garrote. In the struggle, Tobias's hands finds a letter opener. He slides it beneath Hannibal’s palm, then through it, sending Hannibal sprawling backwards.

Tobias goes after him. It's brutal and incredibly violent as elbows and knees deliver bone crunching devastation in-between the jabbing and slashing of Tobias’ letter opener. Parrying a thrust, Hannibal eventually opens Tobias's forearm from elbow to wrist with the tip of a ballpoint pen leaving a jagged, bloody wound. Tobias cries out as his weapon tumbles from his hand.

Hannibal moves in tight wanting to finish this quickly. As he thrusts his pen towards Tobias's throat, he is surprised by a sharp blow to his carotid artery and stumbles back, his blood pressure momentarily dropping as his brain tries to reboot.

Tobias lunges forward, tackling Hannibal. In full guard, he now reigns blows down on Hannibal's head in hopes of ending him.

Holding on to consciousness, Hannibal catches one of Tobias's arms and breaks it at the elbow. As Tobias screams, Hannibal rolls him off and climbs to his feet. Bruised and battered, he retrieves the heavy metal stag statue from its pedestal, bringing it down violently on Tobias’ skull with a sickening crack. Hannibal collapses from exhaustion, battered and bloodied.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - MINUTES LATER

Hannibal’s office is now an active crime scene. Local Police Officers, Detectives and Emergency Responders present. The corpses of Tobias and Franklyn lie sadly amongst the debris.

Hannibal is being treated by a Paramedic, bandaging his arm and tending to his other wounds. Hannibal stares into middle-distance until he sees Will enter, also with bandaged arm, Jack Crawford at his side. Will eyes the bloody stag statue next to Tobias’ dead body. Hannibal is visibly relieved to see Will alive and well.

Hannibal Lecter: "Mr. Budge said he was questioned by the FBI and he murdered two men. I was worried you were dead."

Will demonstrates his own wounded arm.

Will Graham: "You had reason to worry."

Jack Crawford: "Tobias Budge kills two Baltimore Police Officers, nearly kills an FBI Special Agent, and after all that his first stop is your office."

Hannibal Lecter: "He came to kill my patient."

Will Graham: "Hannibal’s patient told him he suspected a friend was involved with the murder at the symphony. Hannibal told me and I investigated. I got him involved. Your patient. Is that who Tobias Budge was serenading?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I don’t know. Franklyn knew more than he was telling me. He told Mr. Budge he didn’t have to kill anymore. Then he broke Franklyn’s neck. Then he attacked me."

Jack Crawford: "And you killed him."

He eyes with convincing sadness Franklyn’s corpse as it is placed into a body bag and hoisted onto a gurney.

Hannibal Lecter: "Yes."

Will Graham: "Could your patient’ve been involved with any of what Budge was doing?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I thought this was a simple matter of poor choice in friends."

Jack eyes Hannibal a brief moment, then turns his attention to the crime scene and the two bodies being wheeled out.

Jack Crawford: "This doesn’t feel simple."

Jack moves off to study the crime scene as Will sits, taking gauze from a med-kit and dabbing Hannibal’s bloody forehead.

Will Graham: "I feel like I’ve dragged you into my world."

Hannibal Lecter: "I got here on my own. But I appreciate the company."

INT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - MORNING

Hannibal sits opposite Bedelia, mid-therapy.

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m going to start seeing patients again. It’s strange thinking about going back to daily practice."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "It’s good you stepped away. Even if it was only for a few days."

Hannibal Lecter: "Patients will sit where Franklyn died. I will sit where I almost died. And I will offer therapy."

Bedelia simply watches Hannibal, saying nothing.

Hannibal Lecter: "It’s easy to understand why you retired after you were attacked. Will you ever feel comfortable returning to psychiatric work?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "This is psychiatric work."

Hannibal Lecter: "One patient isn’t a practice. I can’t help feeling responsible for what happened to Franklyn."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Every person has an intrinsic responsibility for their own life, Hannibal. No one else can take on that responsibility. Not even you."

Hannibal Lecter: "Did you take responsibility when you were attacked by your patient?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Yes. But I don’t take responsibility for his death."

Hannibal considers that a moment, then:

Hannibal Lecter: "Nor should you."