EXT. WOODLAND - NIGHT

Shafts of beautiful winter moonlight. Will Graham stands in the woods. In hunting gear. A rifle under his arm. Will moves through the forest, stepping carefully, gun raised at port arms. Listening. The woodland symphony.

He sees movement in the trees up ahead. Raises his rifle to his shoulder. Slowly the black stag moves into view. Fearsome and majestic. It turns and looks right at Will. Will is frozen. Then his finger tightens on the trigger.

But the black stag is gone. There’s a rustling in the trees behind him. Will spins around, rifle at the ready.

He catches a glimpse of the black stag moving. Will follows it with his gun, then loses sight. He listens with the barrel of his rifle. More rustling to his right. Then to his left.

Then silence. Will slowly advances deeper into the forest, moving cautiously. He approaches a thicket of branches, and the black stag bolts. Will fires. The stag runs.

Will arrives where the stag was, finds blood on leaves. It smears across his fingers. Will follows the spots of blood. As he pursues, faster, more urgent. Will breathes hard, breath frosting.

He sees a patch of blood, slick and black in the moonlight. He stops as the black stag comes into view ahead, between the trees. He raises the rifle but it is there and then gone.

Will runs to the spot. Sees the stag. Raises his rifle.

BLAM!

The black stag judders and crashes through undergrowth. Will after it. It disappears into a dense thicket.

Crashing from within. As if the stag has collapsed. Will, hoarse and panting, pushes into the thicket. Tense. Nervous. A glimpse of antlers, moving, low to the ground -- through the brush. Will parts the branches with his rifle barrel. To see...

Abigail Hobbs.

She stares up at him. Abigail’s eyes fix on Will in a silent plea. She looks exactly as she did when he first saw her in her family’s kitchen, but instead of a slit throat, there is a bullet hole in her neck that is gushing blood in spurts, instead of lying on a kitchen floor, she is in mud and snow. Will stares in fixed horror.

A figure appears near Will; it is black, melding into the shadows, almost human but with an antlered head. Suddenly, shockingly, this Man Stag is nearly upon Will, fixing him with a terrifying gaze.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY

Will Graham wakes up with a jerk. Will is in his bed, dawn light streaking through the windows. He looks drawn, ill, groggy.

The dogs are barking and he throws back the covers. His feet and legs are covered in dried mud which smears the bedclothes. The light hurts his eyes. Will is immediately concerned.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY

A beautiful winter morning. Will shields his eyes on the porch as the dogs rush out barking. Winston stays by Will’s side. He looks down at him. Winston pushes his head under his hand. The others bark and mill. Something has them thrown, agitated.

Will turns back inside.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY

The dogs fuss around Will as he heads for the sink, and runs the tap good and cold. He drinks from the faucet.

He grabs a bottle of aspirin and weighs four in his palm before swallowing them and then bending back to the faucet, feeling bad. He glugs water, sighing breaths between each swallow. He straightens, wipes his mouth.

And then, with sudden violence, he retches and hurls into the sink. And stares.

Lying in the sink, spotted with aspirin is a grey, perfectly intact human ear... Will stares at it.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY

Will explodes off the porch and drops to his knees in the yard. Retching and retching but nothing more comes.

He looks up. Around. Nothing. Whirls around. Woods all around.

Will sits on the porch. Shivering. Staring. Hannibal’s car pulls up and Hannibal gets out. Comes to Will.

Will Graham: "I went to Minnesota. I took Abigail. We went to Minnesota. She didn’t come back with me."

Hannibal is effectively feigning shock and concern.

Hannibal Lecter: "Show me."

He holds out his hand. Will looks at it, looks up at Hannibal and then takes it and stands. Hannibal ushers him inside.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY

Hannibal wraps a blanket around Will. Sits him down.

Through the kitchen doorway, Hannibal stares at what is in the sink with stunned silence. Will sits in the living room, looking into middle-distance.

Will Graham: "I don’t remember going to bed last night. But I must have. Maybe I got up to let the dogs out and I..."

Hannibal Lecter: "When did you last see Abigail?"

Will Graham: "I woke up and my feet were muddy."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will. When did you last see Abigail?"

Will Graham: "Yesterday. At her father’s cabin. I had an episode. She said something was wrong with me. She was afraid of me. She ran away."

Hannibal Lecter: "What happened? Why was she afraid?"

Will Graham: "I hallucinated. I hallucinated that I killed her. But it wasn’t real. I know it wasn’t real."

He looks at Hannibal, desperate, terrified. Hannibal is saddened, concerned. He kneels next to Will.

Hannibal Lecter: "Will, we have to call Jack Crawford. You can’t run from this. It will only make things worse. Get dressed."

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - ENCLOSED PATIO - DAY

Hannibal stands patiently next to the door observing the perimeter F.B.I. Agents and local police have established. Among the F.B.I. and animal services vehicles, Brian Zeller, Beverly Katz and Jimmy Price patiently wait.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Jack Crawford stands with two F.B.I. Agents, surrounded by the dogs. Will sits, still stunned, in his overstuffed chair.

Jack Crawford: "What are we going to find when we go to Minnesota, Will?"

Will searches for an answer he doesn’t have, then admits:

Will Graham: "I don’t know."

Jack studies Will, his broken pony, then turns to an Agent:

Jack Crawford: "Process him."

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY

The front door swings open revealing Hannibal Lecter still standing on the porch, a sadly stoic expression on his face.

Will Graham is in handcuffs, the two F.B.I. Agents at his side. Jack Crawford follows Will out, but stops on the porch with Hannibal Lecter. Jack nods to his team and the animal control officers and F.B.I. Agents, including Zeller, Price and Katz, get to work, picking up their gear.

Zeller, Price and Katz move into his home with evidence collection kits, their expressions dour. They look at Will, then look away. Beverly looks back, making eye contact. Will holds her gaze for a moment then has to look away.

Will is marched across the front yard by the two F.B.I. Agents. They lead him to an F.B.I. vehicle. One of the Agents opens the back door while the other Agent tucks Will’s head and pushes him into the back seat and shuts the door.

F.B.I. Agents are removing evidence boxes from his home. Two animal handlers are leading the dogs out of the house on leashes. Winston breaks free and runs toward Will.

A handler grabs Winston’s collar and drags him away towards the dog van. Winston barks and whines, looking back at Will.

Will watches in anguish as Winston is dragged off. And as the S.U.V. he’s in pulls away from his home, Jack Crawford and Hannibal Lecter stand watching. Inside Will’s house behind them, flashbulbs go off as Will’s living room is turned into a crime scene.

INT. F.B.I. S.U.V. - DAY

Being driven away, Will leans his head against the window, his home and dogs and life receding into the distance.

INT. B.A.U. - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - DAY

In t-shirt and boxers, Will Graham stands in the brightly-lit, sterile space on a white paper mat. Staring straight ahead. He hands his pants to Jimmy Price who bags them. His shirt and his right and left shoes are stacked on a nearby table in three separate, appropriately labelled evidence bags. His eyeglasses and watch are also bagged and tagged.

Jimmy Price holds Will’s khakis with one gloved-hand and digs through the pockets with another. Zeller logs the evidence next to an operational video camera. It is painfully awkward for them all. Will stares in silence.

Jimmy Price: "Right rear pocket. One leather wallet containing 17 dollars cash."

Brian Zeller: "Right rear pocket. One leather wallet 17 dollars cash."

Jimmy dips a hand into another pants pocket. Removes keys.

Jimmy Price: "Front left pocket. Key ring. Two keys. House and car."

Brian Zeller: "Front left pocket. Key ring. Two keys. House and car."

Jimmy checks the other pocket. Finds a pocket knife.

Jimmy Price: "Front right pocket. Folding knife."

He handles the small folded knife carefully, examining the knife handle, a smudged fingerprint in what might be blood.

Brian Zeller: "Front right pocket. Folding knife."

Zeller grabs a new evidence bag, drops the knife inside.

Red falling particles come into focus. Falling through the air like snow.

INT. B.A.U. - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - LATER

Will stands in his underwear alone with Beverly Katz, who is scraping under his nails with a small tool. A dull red residue falls onto the white paper. They’ve both seen it often enough to know what it is. Blood.

The file slides under his nail and the red flakes fall onto the paper...

He watches the dusting of blood fall from under his nail. Beverly is looking at Will. Struggling with the situation.

Beverly Katz: "I can’t do the silent treatment. I can’t pretend I don’t know you and I can’t pretend we don’t both know what I’m finding under your nails."

Will remains silent, in numb shock.

Beverly Katz: "You called me once because you didn’t trust yourself to know what was real. This blood is real, Will."

Will Graham: "I know."

Beverly Katz: "Do you know how it got there?"

Will Graham: "Not with certainty, no."

Beverly Katz: "Certainty comes from the evidence. I didn’t want to find any evidence on you. I wanted to be certain about who you are. But you can’t even be certain about yourself."

Will Graham: "Not anymore."

Beverly Katz: "If you weren’t certain about yourself, then you shouldn’t have been here. This is the FBI."

Will Graham: "I thought I would get better."

Beverly Katz: "How long have you been lying about what’s going on with you?"

Will Graham: "I wasn’t lying --"

Beverly Katz: "You knew your state of mind. You should have recused yourself from any investigation. You were irresponsible and a girl is dead."

Beverly steps back from him. Angry with him.

Beverly Katz: "However far over the edge you were leaning, I was hoping that you wouldn’t fall. You always said all you do is interpret the evidence. So do it, Will. Interpret the evidence."

Will Graham: "According to the evidence..."

Will fights what he wants versus what he thinks. Finally -- a whispered, horrible realization.

Will Graham: "I killed Abigail Hobbs."

Alana Bloom's growing horror as she listens to Jack Crawford via the two-way mirror.

Jack Crawford: "We analyzed the tissue. It matched Abigail Hobbs. It was her ear. Her blood was under Will’s fingernails. Scratches on his arms look like defensive wounds. She fought back --"

Alana Bloom: "Shut up. We’re --"

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - JACK CRAWFORD’S OFFICE - DAY

Alana is struggling with this information, tears welling. She pushes them back. Finally she can’t hear another word.

Alana Bloom: "Just stop talking."

It comes out more of as a plea as opposed to anything hostile. A long beat of silence, both of them stressed, neither of them above succumbing to the pressure of it.

Alana Bloom: "“He won’t. Get too close.” You said you would cover him. You could see he was breaking."

Jack Crawford: "Yes, I could. And I kept pushing him because he was saving lives."

Alana Bloom: "Not Abigail Hobbs’ life."

Jack Crawford: "Look me in the eye and tell me you couldn’t see he was breaking."

Alana Bloom: "Of course I could see it. I told you not to put him out there."

Jack Crawford: "Every decision I made about Will Graham’s mental health was under the advisement of a respected psychiatrist, who you recommended."

Alana Bloom: "Hannibal had to know. He had to see something was wrong."

Jack Crawford: "Not until it was too late. Just like the rest of us. Hannibal said Will was exhibiting signs of dementia."

Alana Bloom: "Dementia isn’t a disease, it’s a symptom of disease. We have to find out what’s causing it and treat it."

Jack Crawford: "The concern is that there may not be anything to treat. Will had a brain scan. They found nothing."

Alana Bloom: "This started with Garret Jacob Hobbs."

Jack Crawford: "Maybe Will did what Garret Jacob Hobbs couldn’t do. Kill his daughter."

Alana Bloom: "Abigail’s blood is on all of us. And so is Will’s."

EXT. FBI PARKING LOT - ALANA BLOOM’S CAR - DAY

A muffled scream is heard as Alana Bloom sits behind the wheel of her car, gripping the steering wheel with white knuckles as she lets out her frustration and anger and sadness.

INT. B.A.U. - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Will sits at a table in his jump suit. Alana Bloom enters. She can’t hide her distress at seeing him this way. And he can’t hide his relief at seeing her walk through the door.

Will Graham: "Hi."

Alana Bloom: "Hi."

Will Graham: "You’re flushed. You been yelling?"

Alana Bloom: "Screaming is more like it."

Will Graham: "I could use a good scream. I can feel one. Perched under my chin."

Alana Bloom: "Let it out."

Will Graham: "I’m afraid if I started, I... wouldn’t be able to stop. I’m surprised Jack let you in here. Given my romantic overtures."

Alana Bloom: "Jack doesn’t know about your romantic overtures. Didn’t know."

Alana self-consciously glances at the two-way mirror. Behind the mirror, Jack shakes his head and pinches the bridge of his nose.

Alana looks at Will, who averts his eyes.

Will Graham: "Guess you dodged a bullet with me."

Alana Bloom: "I don’t feel like I dodged a bullet. I feel wounded."

He slides his hand out, but catches himself and withdraws. Will glances selfconsciously at the two-way mirror.

Alana Bloom: "Been in touch with Animal Services. I’m going to pick up your dogs in a couple of hours. I’ll bring them back home with me and take care of them until... whenever."

Will Graham: "Are you sure? Whenever could be a long time from now."

Alana Bloom: "I’ll take care of them until then."

Will Graham: "Thank you."

Alana Bloom: "We have to do some tests. They’ll be the standard psychopathology tests. Thematic Apperception. Minnesota Multiphasic."

Will Graham: "Suppose you’re going to ask me to draw a clock while you’re at it."

Alana Bloom: "Hannibal ask you to draw a clock?"

Will Graham: "Said it was an exercise to help ground me in a present moment. A handle to reality to hold onto."

Alana Bloom: "Was the clock normal?"

Will Graham: "Would I be here if it wasn’t?"

Now Alana’s interest is raised. Her antenna humming. She pulls out pen and paper and slides it across the table.

Alana Bloom: "Draw me a clock."

Will takes the pen and paper and starts to draw a clock.

He draws a normal clock. Alana watches with dawning horror as she sees Will draw a clock with all of the numbers and hands stacked on one side. Dali-esque. Just like he did before with Hannibal. Will turns the picture and slides it to her.

Will Graham: "See. Just a normal clock. Telling the time isn’t my problem."

Alana looks at Will with growing dread.

Alana Bloom: "It’s the least of your problems."

EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - DAY

A Minnesota patrol car pulls up to the house.

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - DAY

Two local cops, guns at the ready, enter the dark, empty hallway. They move to the Kitchen doorway. They flash their flashlights, scanning the room. And the beams pick up splashes and sprays of blood, slick black in the shuttered gloom, turning red in the beams....

The floor is covered in a pool of blood. The two cops hold on the charnel scene and stare...

EXT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - DAY

Time lapse establishing.

INT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - DAY

Bedelia sits quietly with Hannibal, who stares into middle-distance. Neither of them say a word. Hannibal’s eyes brim with tears. Finally:

Hannibal Lecter: "Despite the overwhelming evidence, I still find myself searching for ways Abigail could still be alive."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Grieving is an individual process with a universal goal. The truest examination of the meaning of life and the meaning of its end."

Hannibal Lecter: "I know what life means."

She watches Hannibal, silently, never pushing him to speak.

Hannibal Lecter: "We’ve existed for 100,000 years. In that time 100 billion human lives have had beginnings and endings."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "100,000 lives haven’t impacted yours. Clearly Abigail Hobbs’ life has and that seems to surprise you."

He can’t deny it, it weighs on him.

Hannibal Lecter: "I never considered having a child. But after meeting Abigail, I understood the appeal. The opportunity to guide and support, and in many ways, direct a life."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You were having influence on her?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I was hoping I was."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Young people are supposed to be the lenses through which we see ourselves living beyond this life."

Hannibal considers that, not necessarily agreeing.

Hannibal Lecter: "I think of my earliest memory and project forward to what I imagine will be my death. I never think about living beyond that span of time. Except by reputation."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Even after this loss?"

Hannibal Lecter: "More so after this loss."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Will Graham is a loss, too. You have to grieve him as a loss."

Hannibal Lecter: "I haven’t given up on Will."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "If he is found guilty of killing Abigail Hobbs..."

Hannibal Lecter: "When. Let’s be honest."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I don’t recommend you participate in any rehabilitation effort."

Hannibal remains thoughtful a moment, then:

Hannibal Lecter: "I was so confident in my ability to help Will, to solve him..."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "To save him."

Hannibal Lecter: "Trying to save him, I lost Abigail. It’s hard to accept that I could fail them both so profoundly."

Bedelia studies Hannibal’s regret.

INT. B.A.U. - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - DAY

A display of de-constructed fishing lures on a white sheet of paper. Jack and Alana are with Zeller, Price and Katz.

Jack Crawford: "Will was a fisherman. He tied all of his own lures."

Jimmy Price: "Most anglers use feathers, twine, fur, bits of shell. Designing their flies to catch specific fish."

Beverly displays a lure.

Beverly Katz: "This one caught my eye. I noticed the hair color. Took me a few to accept what I was seeing. I ran a chem-set to confirm the connection."

Alana Bloom: "What connection?"

Beverly Katz: "Four of the lures are made from materials including human remains."

Alana is stunned. Jack Crawford has heard many strange things in his career, but this requires a beat to process.

Jimmy Price: "We have DNA matches on all of them."

As Beverly explains, she displays her grisly discoveries --

Beverly Katz: "This one is Cassie Boyle. Bits of bone fragments and pieces of lung. Marissa Schuur. Antler velvet, a fingernail, wound with her hair. Doctor Sutcliffe. Crushed teeth, soft tissue from inside his mouth, bound with cartilage from his jaw."

Jack Crawford: "All victims of the Copy Cat?"

Jimmy Price: "Other lure was made with hair and fiber matched to Georgia Madchen."

Brian Zeller: "He kept trophies from his victims."

Jack Crawford: "Trophies. Now Will Graham is a serial killer taking trophies?"

Alana Bloom: "Something is wrong with Will, physically, neurologically. He’s not a serial killer."

Brian Zeller: "Abigail’s just his latest victim. Must’ve been working together. She was probably going to expose him."

Jimmy and Beverly glare at him but he is unrepentant.

Brian Zeller: "We let the fox into the chicken coop. And he played us all."

INT. B.A.U. - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Will Graham sits alone. A muffled clicking sound can be heard. Faint, but getting louder. Will looks to the two way mirror. The muffled hoof steps draw closer and closer. Will stands from the table and crosses to the mirror, cupping his hands to see through it. Nothing. Just the dark reflection of his eyes. Then a silhouette rises from the darkness behind the mirror, as if made from it.

The Antlered Man, Will’s personal Devil.

As Will shudders with horror... he is sitting back at the table, staring absently at the two way mirror. He realizes not only did he not get up and cross to the mirror because of his shackles, but now...

Jack Crawford is sitting opposite him, his face slack with worry. A tiny startle from Will. He was off in a nightmare when Jack walked into the room and sat opposite him.

Jack Crawford: "You’re sick, Will."

Will Graham: "I wasn’t consistent with taking my antibiotics. My fever came back."

Jack Crawford: "We’re going to move you to a secure medical ward where we will find out what’s wrong with you. And get you the treatment you need."

Will Graham: "And then what? Baltimore State Hospital for the Criminally Insane? Have Chilton fumbling at my head?"

Jack analyzes Will, hoping for any confirmation of something.

Jack Crawford: "This job doesn’t generally lend itself to optimism. I desperately want to be optimistic about an alternative to what every fiber of evidence is telling me you did."

Will Graham: "I can’t confess to something I don’t remember."

Jack Crawford: "Question is, how much more is there that you don’t remember? We found your fishing lures."

Will Graham: "I should hope so. They were on my desk next to the front door."

Jack Crawford: "We found human remains in the materials you used to make them. Cassie Boyle. Marissa Schuur. Donald Sutcliffe. Georgia Madchen."

Will’s mind reels, he shakes his head, unable to accept what Jack Crawford is telling him.

Will Graham: "No. I wasn’t sick when Cassie Boyle was murdered. I wasn’t sick when Marissa Schuur was murdered."

Jack Crawford: "That’s not an argument you want to be making right now. Not to me."

Will Graham: "Because then I’d be a psychopath."

Jack Crawford: "My biggest fear is learning you knew what you were doing all along."

Will Graham: "Don’t have to be afraid of that, Jack. But there is something you should be afraid of and that’s whoever is doing this to me."

Jack Crawford: "Someone is doing this to you? Is that what this is? A set up?"

Will Graham: "They’ll be close to you. It could be someone here. Working with you. They know the cases. They know forensics. They know I’m unstable."

Jack Crawford: "Do you hear how paranoid you sound?"

Will allows himself a sad smile, not believing what he’s about to say, but also not knowing what to believe.

Will Graham: "Or it could just be you. Then I’m pretty much screwed, aren’t I?"

EXT. F.B.I. - DAY

Will, now in irons, is being shuffle-walked to an ambulance by a Paramedic and a Guard. Jack looks on, despairing. Will looks out at Jack as he is stepped up into the ambulance.

INT. AMBULANCE - DAY

The moving ambulance. Will Graham is sitting back on the gurney. His cuffs round the gurney rail and fastened.

Will is watching the solitary Guard opposite him. He glances away with trepidation, he knows what he has to do, but doesn’t want to do it. He steels himself.

Will looks down, takes a deep breath and cracks his thumbs out of joint. A horrible shriek/groan of pain as he slides his broken hand from the cuff in one move. The Guard looks up. Will turns on him with a mixture of malice, pain and regret. And lunges.

EXT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

Time-lapse establishing.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal stands with Jack and Alana, mid-conversation.

Jack Crawford: "Broke his thumb getting out of the restraints. Disarmed his guard, threw him and the driver out of the vehicle. They found the ambulance in an alley in Dumfries. These are not the actions of an innocent man."

Alana Bloom: "They’re the actions of a man who is impaired. I had Will draw a clock to test for cognitive dysfunction."

She places Will’s Dali-esque drawing of a clock on the desk. Hannibal reacts, very concerned.

Hannibal: "That’s extreme."

He reaches for his notebook and opens it revealing the drawing Will made in his office in Episode 110.

Hannibal: "This is the clock Will drew for me two weeks ago. It’s normal."

Alana Bloom: "What disease progresses gradually but plateaus for lengths of time?"

Hannibal: "Will has periods of clarity. We’ve seen him lucid and aware one moment and then the next moment he’s not."

Alana Bloom: "Could be some form of encephalitis."

Hannibal: "Autoimmune encephalitis. Body’s immune system attacks the brain as if it is itself an infection."

Alana Bloom: "It’s hard to diagnose. There are no tumors. No lesions. Wouldn’t show up on a brain scan unless you knew you were looking for it."

Jack Crawford: "Just tell me if he could’ve killed five people and not known about it."

Neither Alana nor Hannibal can bring themselves to answer.

Hannibal: "It’s unlikely."

Jack Crawford: "Doesn’t feel like dementia. Feels like an intelligent psychopath. This killer called the Hobbs house, warned Abigail’s father. Hobbs then hung up the phone, killed his wife and cut his daughter’s throat."

Hannibal: "I was with Will that entire time."

Jack Crawford: "Did he have an opportunity to make a phone call?"

Hannibal: "At the construction site. Before we went to interview Garret Jacob Hobbs. Will was in the office while I was outside loading the car with files, but he was only in there a minute or two."

Jack Crawford: "Dumb luck and bad bookkeeping. It’s how Will said he caught Hobbs. How would you say he caught Hobbs?"

He glances at Alana, as if to prepare her for what’s coming.

Hannibal: "We were looking through the files and it was as if Will plucked his name out of a hat, based on little more than an incomplete address."

Alana Bloom: "That’s what Will does. He makes those kinds of leaps."

Jack Crawford: "Allow me to play the devil, Dr. Bloom. This clock test. Would Will Graham know how to fake it?"

After a long moment, Alana finally answers.

Alana Bloom: "Yes."

INT. ALANA BLOOM’S HOUSE - DAY

Alana comes through the door after Will’s dogs, holding them all on two group leashes. The dogs pull until...

Alana Bloom: "Tssst."

The dogs focus.

Alana Bloom: "Sit."

The dogs obey. Except for one.

Alana Bloom: "Everyone."

The final dog sits. Alana allows herself a small, sad smile as she unfastens each of their collars from the lead.

Alana Bloom: "Okay."

She gives them each a small treat. Alana shrugs off her coat and drops her bag on the counter as the pack of dogs mill. She crosses to the refrigerator.

Alana grabs a beer and pops the cap. The dogs follow her. She takes a deep sip and sighs. She rests the cold bottle against her forehead. She’s exhausted.

Just as she’s noticed the dogs have all trailed away...

Will Graham's Voice: "Alana."

Alana startles, dropping her bottle of beer. Will Graham is now standing in the room with her, the dogs milling about, sniffing and greeting him with wagging tails.

Will Graham: "Please don’t scream."

Alana Bloom: "Wasn’t going to but you saying that sort of makes me think I should."

Will Graham: "I’ll stand over here if it makes you feel any safer."

Alana Bloom: "It doesn’t. You can’t be here, Will. I can’t harbor you."

Will Graham: "I know. Just got a little confused. I needed to get my bearings. It’s good to see the dogs. Thought I wasn’t going to see them again."

Alana Bloom: "You have to go to a doctor. What’s happening to you can be treated. This disease. It’s attacking the way you think. Everything you’re feeling. The doubt, the confusion. It can all go away. If you let it."

Will Graham: "If I don’t find out who is doing this to me, I’ll be going away. They already think I did it. They’ll diagnose me with something and they’ll keep diagnosing me and they’ll keep being wrong."

Alana Bloom: "I don’t know how to help you."

Will Graham: "I’m not a killer."

She picks up her car keys from the counter and offers them.

Alana Bloom: "Take my car. It’s parked on the street. But please, Will, you’ve got to go to a hospital."

Will takes the car keys, sad and disappointed. He considers them a moment, then hands them back to Alana.

Will Graham: "You were pretty slick about that. You just unlocked your car doors, didn’t you? Flashed the lights? They’ll be waiting for me outside."

Alana Bloom: "If there was somebody out there, wouldn’t they already be coming through the door?"

Will Graham: "No, they wouldn’t. Because they know I could kill you before they got up those stairs."

The reality of that hangs in the air, then:

Will Graham: "Goodbye, Alana."

He quietly moves toward the back door, disappearing down the hall. Alana waits there a moment, afraid to move. She realizes she stopped breathing and takes a jagged breath.

EXT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

Time-lapse establishing.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal works at his desk in his darkened office. Then:

Hannibal: "Hello, Will. How are you feeling?"

Reveal Will is up on the landing, tucked in the corner.

Will Graham: "Self aware."

Hannibal: "You frightened Dr. Bloom."

Will Graham: "She’s confused about who I am, which I can relate to. Are you confused about who I am?"

Hannibal: "I’m not confused. I’m skeptical. Meaning I’m willing to change my mind should the evidence change."

Will Graham: "Do you believe I killed Abigail?"

Hannibal: "I believe it’s entirely possible, if not nearly indisputable based on how you discovered her ear."

Will Graham: "If it was just Abigail, I would have believed. I would have believed I got so far inside Hobbs’ head, I couldn’t get out."

Hannibal: "But it wasn’t just Abigail."

Will Graham: "I know who I am."

Hannibal: "All sense of who you are has been distorted by your illness. You know who you are in this moment. That isn’t always the case."

Will Graham: "I didn’t kill any of them. Someone is making sure no one believes me."

Hannibal sighs, debating how to best help his friend.

Hannibal: "If we’re to prove you didn’t commit these murders, perhaps we should consider how you could have. And then disprove that."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - THERAPY - LATER

Will sits opposite Hannibal, a session like any other save for the fact that Will is wearing a prison jumpsuit.

Hannibal: "If you are this killer, that identity runs through these events like a thread through pearls. Cassie Boyle would have been your first victim. You said her crime scene was practically gift wrapped."

The crime scene appears in the darkened shadows of the room as if in the recesses of Will’s mind: Cassie Boyle mounted on the stag head, all of it painted black.

Will Graham: "It told me everything I needed to know to catch Garret Jacob Hobbs."

As Hannibal speaks, Will can see out of the corner of his eye, movement near the crime scene, a separate and distinct dark shape with antlers, prowling near Cassie Boyle’s body.

Hannibal: "You’d seen one of Hobbs’ victims, you knew how he killed. You may have been exploring how he killed to better understand who he was."

Will Graham: "I wasn’t in Minnesota when Cassie Boyle was murdered."

Hannibal: "She disappeared on a Saturday. Found her on a Monday. You would’ve had the weekend to do your work."

Will Graham: "I know I didn’t kill her."

Hannibal: "How do you know?"

Will’s mind spins for an answer. Hannibal doesn’t allow him to articulate it, continuing to draw a psychological picture as another crime scene appears in the room: Marissa Schuur mounted on antlers, all of it painted black.

Hannibal: "What did you think when you first met Marissa Schuur? How much like Abigail she was? Same height, same weight, same hair color, same age."

Will Graham: "How could I resist?"

The black antlers around Marissa Schuur move revealing the inhuman silhouette of the dark shape, only now it becomes clear it is the Man Stag that haunted Will’s nightmare.

Hannibal: "So much like his daughter, you may have wondered why Garret Jacob Hobbs didn’t kill her himself."

Will fights the confusion, sickened by it. Another crime scene appears behind Hannibal’s desk: Dr. Sutcliffe nearly decapitated at the jaw. Painted black.

Hannibal: "Dr. Sutcliffe wasn’t killed how Garret Jacob Hobbs killed. He was murdered how you imagined yourself murdering a woman only days before."

Will Graham: "How Georgia Madchen killed. She said she dreamt I killed Sutcliffe. But she couldn’t see my face. And then she was murdered."

Hannibal: "You catch these killers, Will, by getting into their heads, but you also let them into yours."

Black antlers rise in the darkness behind Hannibal, the Man Stag taking shape from the shadow. It has Hannibal’s face. Will winces at the image in his head, shaking it off.

Hannibal: "I’m trying to help you, Will."

Will Graham: "Then take me back to Minnesota. I want to see where Abigail died."

INT. HANNIBAL’S CAR - NIGHT

Hannibal drives, windshield wipers thumping rhythmically as rain rolls off in sheets. He glances over at Will Graham who dozes fitfully in the passenger seat.

EXT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - MORNING

Time-lapse establishing.

INT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - MORNING

Jack Crawford and Alana Bloom are questioning Bedelia.

Jack Crawford: "You had any contact with Hannibal Lecter in the last 24 hours?"

Bedelia: "Is something wrong?"

Jack Crawford: "I’m on my way to Minnesota. I believe Will Graham has taken Hannibal Lecter there. Or Hannibal Lecter has taken Will Graham."

Bedelia: "Implying Hannibal went willingly with an escaped murder suspect?"

Jack Crawford: "Would Dr. Lecter put himself in danger to help Will?"

Bedelia stares at Jack, strange to hear the allegation aloud.

Jack Crawford: "We’re not suspecting Hannibal of doing anything criminal."

Alana Bloom: "Hannibal knows Will is sick. If he had any control of the situation, he would get him to a hospital."

Bedelia: "I could imagine Hannibal taking Mr. Graham to Minnesota if he thought Abigail Hobbs was still alive."

Alana Bloom: "We haven’t found her body. Neither of them can accept Abigail is dead. Will because he can’t accept he’s killed her and Hannibal because he can’t accept Will could."

Bedelia: "Or he’s trying to prove Will could."

Alana Bloom: "Will could kill Hannibal and not even know he was doing it."

Bedelia: "If anyone could’ve helped Will Graham, it would’ve been Hannibal. In fact, he may still be trying."

Jack eyes Bedelia, still unsettled about the situation. Alana can see his distress.

EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - DAY

Hannibal’s Bentley pulls into the driveway, Hannibal behind the wheel. Will Graham in the passenger seat.

Hannibal and Will get out of the car and head into the house. Even though the car has been turned off, the purr of the Bentley’s engine continues to haunt Will beneath the picture and carry on into and throughout the next scene.

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - FOYER - DAY

Will enters. He walks cautiously down the hall, Hannibal no longer behind him. He walks into:

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - KITCHEN - DAY

Breakfast time. Louise Hobbs is cooking eggs, Garret Jacob Hobbs helping her prep. Abigail sets the table. It’s the moment before everything in Abigail Hobbs’ life changed.

Will Graham stands in the room, watching the scene. The phone rings. It startles Will. A sense of dread as Abigail crosses to the phone and answers it.

Abigail Hobbs: "Hello? Just a second. Dad, it’s for you."

Garret Jacob Hobbs: "Who is it?"

Abigail Hobbs: "Caller i.d. said it was blocked."

She hands her father the phone and as he raises it to his ear, Garret Jacob Hobbs is now Will Graham. Will puts the receiver to his ear. The pervasive purr of Hannibal’s Bentley engine suddenly stops.

Will Graham: "Hello?"

Hannibal's Voice: "Will?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

Hannibal's Voice: "We’re here --"

Will opens his eyes.

INT. HANNIBAL’S CAR - NIGHT

Hannibal sits in the driver’s seat; we can still hear the car cooling and pinging. Will takes a deep breath and heaves a sigh as he opens his car door and climbs out.

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - BASEMENT - NIGHT

The sliding glass door slowly rolls open and Will and Hannibal enter. They move cautiously through the room. Will turns and sees Hannibal standing behind him, a familiarity to their placement in the room takes us to...

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - BASEMENT - FLASHBACK

Will stands where he is now, Hannibal in the same position, only Alana and Abigail are also present.

Abigail Hobbs: "Are we going to re-enact the crime? You be my dad. You be my mom. And you be the man on the phone."

Hannibal is caught off guard. More so by Abigail’s steely nonchalant stare that follows her comment.

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - BASEMENT - NIGHT

Realization dawning, Will dares to stare at Hannibal only briefly before averting his eyes and turning away.

Will Graham: "Are we going to re-enact the crime?"

Hannibal: "If it would help you."

Will Graham: "It may come to that."

Will shrinks into the shadows of the house. Hannibal follows.

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - FOYER - NIGHT

The house is cold. Will and Hannibal climb the stairs to the main floor. Will pauses, bracing himself, as he moves into:

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

The Kitchen is empty. Blood stains everywhere. A processed crime scene. Forensic markers etc.

Will stares. Steps into the room. He bows his head, his face crumpled with emotion. He takes a breath and then looks up again.

Hannibal: "It’s as if Abigail was supposed to die in this kitchen. Nothing we did was able to change that."

Hannibal is as horrified by the room as Will, feigning as though he is seeing it for the first time. Will looks at the arterial spray on the wall, deeply saddened.

Will Graham: "Her throat was cut. She lost great gouts of blood and there’s an unmistakable arterial spray --"

He stops himself, unable to speak for a moment.

Hannibal: "They haven’t found her body."

Will Graham: "Just the one piece."

Hannibal: "If you were in Garret Jacob Hobbs’ frame of mind when you killed her, they may never find her body."

Will Graham: "Cause I honored every part of her?"

Hannibal: "Perhaps you didn’t come here looking for a killer. Perhaps you came here to find yourself. You killed a man in this very room."

Will Graham: "I stared at Hobbs and the space opposite me assumed the shape of a man filled with dark and swarming flies. And then I scattered them."

Hannibal: "At a time when other men first see and fear their isolation, yours has become understandable to you. You are alone because you are unique."

Will Graham: "I’m as alone as you are."

Hannibal: "If you followed the urges you kept down for so long, cultivated them as the inspirations they are, you’d become someone other than yourself."

Will Graham: "I know who I am. I’m not so sure I know who you are anymore. But I am certain one of us killed Abigail."

Will raises his gun and steadies it at Hannibal.

Hannibal: "Are you a killer, Will? You. Right now. This man in front of me. Is this who you really are?"

Will Graham: "You called here that morning. Abigail knew. You kept her secrets until she found out some of yours."

Hannibal eyes the gun in Will’s hand.

Hannibal: "You said it felt good to kill Garret Jacob Hobbs, Will. Would it feel good to kill me now?"

Will Graham: "Garret Jacob Hobbs was a murderer. Are you a murderer, Dr. Lecter?"

Hannibal: "What reason would I have?"

Will Graham: "You have no traceable motive, which is why you were so hard to see. You were just curious what I would do. Someone like me. Someone who thinks how I think. Wind him up and watch him go. Apparently, Dr. Lecter, this is how I go."

Betrayed and confused, Will’s finger tenses on the trigger.

Jack Crawford enters, gun drawn, sees Will is preparing to shoot Hannibal, and in a terrible re-enactment, shoots Will.

BLAM!

A bullet slams into Will’s shoulder and he is knocked against the counter, slides down it. Right where Garret Jacob Hobbs died. Blood flecks Hannibal’s face and shirt.

Jack comes forward, still holding his smoking weapon. He kicks the gun from Will’s loose fingers. Looks down at the bleeding Will with anguish. Will looks up at Jack and Hannibal. Will holds Jack’s gaze.

Will Graham: "See? See?"

His vision begins to dim and lose focus, as it does Hannibal blurs and shifts into the Blackened Man Stag.

EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - NIGHT

Will Graham is on a gurney. The gurney is being moved to an ambulance by paramedics. Jack Crawford is moving behind it, concerned. They take us past Hannibal Lecter, who watches Will being put in the ambulance. Flecks of blood still on his face.

Hannibal’s POV - the gurney is rushed into the ambulance and the doors are pulled closed on Jack Crawford. The ambulance pulls away, lights flashing. Leaving Jack to watch it go and then he turns to Hannibal. Their eyes meet.

INT. HOSPITAL - ER - NIGHT

As an ER team work on Will, his clothes have been pulled away. A doctor is cleaning the bullet wound in his shoulder. The wound is ugly and red. A blood bag goes up on a stand. A needle is slid into the crook of Will’s elbow. Monitoring machines start to bleep.

A bloom of blood in the barrel of an I/V needle as Will is injected with drugs. Another I/V bag - antibiotics, slid into his other arm. Will Graham, unconscious, drips and drugs and machines working on his behalf... sleeps.

INT. HOSPITAL - WILL GRAHAM’S ROOM - DAY

Jack Crawford walks down the hospital corridor and into Will’s room. Will Graham is unconscious in the bed. Two chairs pulled up by the bed. Hannibal sits in one, eyes on Will. He looks up as Jack enters. Jack takes the other seat.

Hannibal: "Right hemisphere of his brain was inflamed. Been placed in an induced sleep. He’s being treated with antiviral and steroid therapies."

Jack Crawford: "Is he responding?"

Hannibal: "More or less. He’s expected to make a substantial recovery. Over time."

Hannibal looks at Will in his comatose state, then asks:

Jack Crawford: "Would you have gone to Minnesota if he didn’t have a gun on you?"

Hannibal: "I would have wanted to. Even now I feel that I’ve failed to satisfy my obligation to Will."

Jack Crawford: "Any regrets?"

Hannibal: "More than I would care to admit. Psychiatrists can have divided loyalties. We have to protect our patients from becoming victims of the pressures we face to help them."

Jack Crawford: "Will Graham isn’t your victim."

Hannibal: "Nor is he yours."

Jack considers that, not so sure it’s the case.

Jack Crawford: "In my life, I’ve seen some hideous and offhanded ways in which the world breaks people. This is worse than anything I’ve seen on the autopsy scales. What I experienced with Will Graham has caused in me a small tectonic shift. I am not the same man I was yesterday."

Hannibal: "No one in this room is."

Hannibal studies Jack Crawford’s regret. Two FBI Agents stand guard outside.

EXT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - NIGHT

Bedelia opens the door revealing Hannibal holding a platter of food under a beautiful glass dome.

Hannibal: "Good evening."

Bedelia: "Hello, Hannibal. Please come in."

INT. BEDELIA’S HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

A simple, elegant, well-appointed table with place settings for two. Bedelia pours Hannibal a glass of wine, then herself. Hannibal sets a plate of magnificent food in front of Bedelia as she pulls up her chair to the table.

Hannibal: "Tête de Veau en Sauce Verte."

Bedelia: "Smells like a bonfire."

Hannibal: "I smoked the veal on a pyre of dry hay. Imparts a unique smoldering flavor to the meat and to the room."

Bedelia: "This is an unexpected treat."

Hannibal: "Thank you for indulging me."

Bedelia: "You seemed like you needed to talk."

Hannibal: "And since you refuse invitations to my dinner table, this is the only way I could cook for you."

Bedelia: "What’s on your mind, Hannibal?"

Hannibal: "I’m going to see Will tomorrow."

She stares at him a moment, then through him.

Bedelia: "As a patient or as a friend?"

Hannibal: "As a farewell. Of sorts. Who I knew Will to be was an illusion."

Bedelia: "He’s created his own version of reality to help him make sense of what he saw and heard and felt."

Hannibal: "And did."

Bedelia: "Thought Mr. Graham would finally be the patient who cost you your life."

Hannibal: "He didn’t cost me my life. He cost Abigail Hobbs her’s. Your veal is getting cold."

Bedelia realizes she hasn’t taken a bite, cuts into her meat.

Bedelia: "It’s a controversial dish. Veal."

She takes a bite, savoring it.

Bedelia: "Mmmm."

Hannibal: "Those who denounce veal often cite the young age at which veal are killed, when they are in fact older than many pigs going to slaughter."

Bedelia considers that, then brings the subject back.

Bedelia: "You have to be careful, Hannibal. They started to see your pattern."

Hannibal: "What pattern would that be?"

Bedelia: "You form relationships with patients that are conducive to violence. That pattern."

Hannibal goes still.

Bedelia: "Under scrutiny, Jack Crawford’s beliefs about you could unravel."

Hannibal: "Tell me, Dr. Du Maurier, have your beliefs about me begun to unravel?"

Hannibal takes a bite of his veal and waits for her answer.

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - CELL BLOCK - DAY

The cave-like cell on the high security block. The security gate opens and Hannibal Lecter steps inside. He stops and takes in the surroundings. The smells. Straightens his tie. Hannibal walks down the block, aware of the inmates.

He finds the last cell on the block revealing Will Graham inside. He wears a B.S.H.C.I. jumpsuit. His cell bare except for bed and table.

They appraise each other through the safety barrier.

Hannibal: "Hello, Will."

Will Graham: "Dr. Lecter."