EXT. WOODS – EARLY MORNING

In the solitude of the snowbound woods, Will Graham stands, his breath coming in frosted clouds. He stands above a rope loosely coiled on the ground. We follow it to Hannibal Lecter, standing in the snow, tied securely to the base of a maple tree. The rope is looped around his throat, pulling his head tight to the tree, and then continues in multiple turns around his torso before leading back to Will.

Hannibal Lecter: "Which answer is it you want to hear, Will?"

Will Graham: "What’s happening now and about to happen is an answer. I want an admission. Admit what you are."

Hannibal Lecter: "Must I denounce myself as a monster while you still refuse to see the one growing inside you?"

Not the answer Will wants. He whistles and the rope begins to uncoil until it snaps taut, three feet off the ground. The rope goes taut and, with it, the coils around Hannibal creak as they tighten, slowly rolling round him like a python's coils, until finally the rope tightens on his throat. Will turns and now we see the rope leads several feet to the black stag, facing away from Hannibal, leaning, but not pulling, waiting docilely for direction.

He strains against the squeeze, catching his breath.

Hannibal Lecter: "Why not appeal to my better nature?"

Will Graham: "I wasn't aware you had one."

Hannibal Lecter: "No one can be fully aware of another human being unless we love them. By that love we see potential in our beloved. Through that love we allow our beloved to see their potential. Expressing that love, our beloved's potential comes true. I love you, Will."

Will has heard enough. He whistles again, shrill and loud. The black stag starts trudging forward.

Veins bulge in Hannibal's forehead, but he doesn't cry out or protest. His eyes never waver from Will's.

Will Graham: "I once promised you a reckoning."

Will arrives at the tree, face to face, not with Hannibal, but with the Wendigo. Its eyes stare, unblinking. Soulless.

Will Graham stares back, not frightened. Undeterred.

Will Graham: "Here it is."

From behind the maple tree to which the Hannibal/Wendigo is tied, there is a final creak of rope and an unexpectedly-huge fan of blood erupts from the hidden side of the tree.

INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Will awakens, calmly opening his eyes to stare into middle distance. No solace comes from Hannibal's dream death.

Will is sweat-soaked. The dream still real and present.

Sweetbreads are gently sautéed until golden. Sliced, revealing pink inside. Liver is flash-fried rare. Sliced, bleeding a moist red ooze. Eggs are whisked and poured over sweetbreads and liver. Vegetables are added, congealing into the folds of an omelet. On a plate, the omelet is plated, garnished, then scooped out of frame.

Jack Crawford leans forward out of darkness.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Jack picks up a glass of red wine, catching the light, as Hannibal enters with two plated Sacromonte omelets, placing one dish in front of Jack and the second at his own setting.

Hannibal Lecter: "Sacromonte omelet with liver and sweetbreads. Sacromonte was the gypsy hood of Granada. I visited Granada when I was a young man."

Jack Crawford: "I've never been."

Hannibal Lecter: "I fell in love with many things, in particular, this dish. I remember my time there so vividly. Like I frescoed the walls of my mind."

Jack Crawford: "I used to be so afraid of losing my memory. What I wouldn’t give to forget a thing or two now."

Jack eyes the food for a moment before taking a bite.

Jack Crawford: "My compliments to the gypsy hood."

Hannibal Lecter: "Memory gives moments immortality. But forgetfulness promotes a healthy mind. It’s good to forget. What are you trying to forget?"

Jack Crawford: "Doubt. I let doubt in."

Hannibal Lecter: "About me?"

Jack Crawford: "About Will."

Hannibal Lecter: "You were convinced he was guilty. It's hard to unbelieve, Jack."

Jack Crawford: "Would you tell me if there was something to worry about?"

Hannibal Lecter smiles at Jack.

Hannibal Lecter: "I can no longer discuss Will's state of mind with you or anyone else without his consent. Will's officially my patient. He employs me now, not the FBI."

Jack Crawford: "Then I hope your therapy works."

Hannibal Lecter: "Therapy only works when we have a genuine desire to know ourselves as we are, not as we’d like to be. There is a duality to us all, Jack."

EXT. REST STOP – NIGHT

Snow flies. A lone semi trailer truck idles in the parking area, its trailer lights glowing yellow. Exhaust billows.

More light spills from the rest stop bathroom as the trucker exits. He heads into the night's cold and back to his rig.

The view moves across the truck's snow-covered windshield and hood to find the trucker coming the length of his trailer.

Then the trailer's bulk shudders and rocks on its shocks before it's silent again. The trucker is puzzled. He squats to look under the trailer. There's nothing there. No tires blown.

The trucker turns suddenly, but there is nothing there. Turns back, still nothing.

But he's spooked. Somewhere down in the dark parts of his brain, he knows something is there.

He moves back to his cab. Looks at the door. Pauses. Is something inside? He grabs the handle and pulls it open. Nothing. He peers in. Relaxes.

He grabs the handrail and puts his boot on the step. Pulls himself up.

Door open, the trucker steps up to enter, but pauses again as snow drops onto his head. A noise above.

He looks up.

A hunched, powerful silhouette is on the roof of the cab. Before he can open his mouth, splayed paws thrust down out of the snow and darkness. A flash of claws sinks into his shoulders. The back of his neck.

The trucker, kicking, flailing, is bodily dragged up onto the cab roof where he struggles with the shadowed creature.

A flash of fangs, and the trucker's screams for help are cut short. He's dead. Yet the creature continues ravaging its victim. To the sounds of tearing fabric and flesh, of the trucker's lifeless body thudding against the cab's metal roof, blood streams down the windshield before coloring the snow on the hood deep dark red.

INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - LARGE-ANIMAL BARN - NIGHT

Will Graham cocks the hammer of the gun he's holding.

Clark Ingram's face falls. Focus slides along the barrel of the gun to the cocked hammer and then Will's face beyond. In slow motion, the trigger clicks, the hammer falls onto Hannibal Lecter's finger between the hammer and firing pin.

Will looks at Hannibal as Hannibal slides his hand around Will's and pulls the gun away.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Will sits in the chair across from Hannibal, mid-session.

Will Graham: "Do you have any regrets?"

Hannibal Lecter: "With every choice lies the possibility of regret. However, if I choose not to do something, it's usually for a good reason."

Will Graham: "I'm riddled with regrets."

Hannibal Lecter: "A life without regret would be no life at all."

Will Graham: "I regret what I did in the stables."

Hannibal Lecter: "Then you were lucky I was there."

Will Graham: "Being lucky isn't the same as making a mistake. Allowing you to stop me was a mistake."

Hannibal Lecter: "Then it's not your actions that you regret. It's the lack thereof."

Will Graham: "That would be more accurate."

Hannibal Lecter: "Did you make that decision on the basis of anticipating the regret you would feel taking another life?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

Hannibal Lecter: "Anticipating regret commonly results in dubious decisions. You must adapt your behavior to avoid feeling the same way again."

Will Graham: "Adapt. Evolve. Become."

Hannibal Lecter: "I want you to close your eyes, Will, and imagine a version of events you wouldn't have regretted."

Will closes his eyes.

INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - LARGE-ANIMAL BARN - NIGHT

When he opens them, Will stands holding his gun on Clark Ingram.

A bullet rotates into the chamber. The trigger is squeezed. The hammer slams forward. The barrel explodes.

Clark Ingram's head snaps back, blood spraying as the bullet exits his skull.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Will sits opposite Hannibal, as before. He opens his eyes.

Hannibal Lecter: "What did you see?"

Will Graham: "A missed opportunity. To feel like I felt when I killed Garret Jacob Hobbs. To feel like I felt when I thought I killed you."

Hannibal Lecter: "And what does that feel like, Will? Excitement bumping in your chest like a cold medallion?"

Will Graham: "I felt a quiet sense of power."

Hannibal Lecter studies Will for a brief moment.

Hannibal Lecter: "Good. Remember that feeling."

EXT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Margot Verger struts purposefully along a cement walkway.

Will exits Hannibal's office building, his head down, heavy in thought. As Margot approaches, she smiles and it's lovely.

Margot Verger: "I tend to walk out of this building in a similar state. You must be a patient of Dr. Lecter's."

Will nods. Goes to walk away. Aware Margot is now looking at him intensely. Will knows what is coming and wants to avoid it.

Margot Verger: "Are you famous or are we friendly?"

Will Graham: "I'm sorry?"

Margot Verger: "You look familiar. Either I know you or I know of you."

Will Graham: "I'm the guy who didn't kill all those people."

Will moves off leaving Margot considering who it was she crossed paths with just now.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Margot is in session with Hannibal.

Hannibal Lecter: "We all have a gauge for humanity that twitches when we see another person. Tell me, Margot, what twitches when you see your brother?"

Margot Verger: "Not my gauge for humanity."

Hannibal Lecter: "You don't recognize in your brother basic human traits. You dehumanize him as much as he dehumanizes you."

Margot Verger: "At least I'm never going to be the worst person I know."

Hannibal Lecter: "The tendency to see others as less human than ourselves is universal."

Margot Verger: "My brother is less human."

Hannibal Lecter: "And you are less human for it."

A simple truth. She doesn't take offense, but pokes back.

Margot Verger: "Did you just dehumanize me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Psychiatrists who dehumanize patients are more comfortable with painful-but-effective treatments, and experience better results."

Margot Verger: "I met one of your patients. Will Graham. What painful-but-effective treatment did you prescribe him?"

The question hangs in the air.

Margot Verger: "You're very supportive of me killing my brother. I appreciate the support, I really do. But I can only imagine what you'd be supportive of Will Graham doing."

Hannibal Lecter: "What do you imagine?"

Margot Verger: "I imagine you tiptoe your way into the vaults of hearts and minds and coax out whatever's waiting there. What kind of psychiatrist are you?"

Hannibal Lecter: "You already had my reputation and bona fides verified. You know what kind of psychiatrist I am."

Margot Verger: "I'm beginning to."

Hannibal Lecter studies her, not threatened by her observation.

Hannibal Lecter: "What is your interest in Will?"

Margot Verger: "My interest is in your interest in people who kill, or at least try to."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will Graham was very-publicly found innocent of all charges."

Margot Verger: "My brother was very-publicly found innocent of all his charges, too. But not because he was innocent."

EXT. REST STOP - DAY

Sunlight glistens off a bloody icicle, warming its surface until a drop of blood beads and drips from it.

The trucker's dead body is bloodied and sprawled on his back across the cab roof, his head hanging over its edge, throat ripped open. Blood and innards emanate like the spokes of a bicycle wheel. Zeller and Price are atop platforms on either side, inspecting the truck cab roof and the body, respectively.

Jimmy takes photos. Zeller inspects the near-empty torso.

Brian Zeller: "No guts, no glory."

Jimmy Price: "There're guts. They're over there."

Jack Crawford is flanked by Will Graham and Hannibal Lecter.

Will Graham: "It snowed all night. There are no tracks. You sure it was an animal?"

Brian Zeller: "Severance of the jugular and carotids, esophagus destroyed. The bite almost severed his head."

Jimmy Price: "Evisceration was performed by large, non-retractable claws, so we're looking at a wolf or a bear."

Jack Crawford: "Whatever it was, it wasn't afraid of humans. Not anymore."

Will eyes the corpse-icle on the cab of the truck.

Will Graham: "Wolves and bears don't eat where they kill. They would've dragged him off."

Hannibal Lecter: "Unless it went mad. A rabid animal attacks its victims at random and doesn't eat any part of them."

Zeller's gaze darts from the body to the organs spread around, the torn flesh.

Brian Zeller: "There was no eating here. We found just about everything. Viscera was exposed, belly was laid open, but no sign of gnawing or rutting."

Jimmy Price: "Found the same wound patterns on recent livestock mutilations in the area. Evisceration, dismemberment, yet everything accounted for."

Will Graham: "Since when does the FBI get involved in animal attacks, Jack?"

Jack Crawford: "When somebody's holding the leash of whatever's doing the attacking."

Will Graham: "The livestock mutilations... that was practice."

Jack Crawford: "He's going to kill again and he's going to get better at it."

Will Graham: "He's urbanizing his animal -- moving closer to the city, adapting it to bigger prey."

Hannibal Lecter: "He's not denying its natural instincts, he's evolving them."

Jack studies Will and Hannibal's exchange.

Jack Crawford: "It's blood sport."

INT. LOCKED INPATIENT PSYCHIATRIC WARD - DAY

A rat crawls down the length of a jumpsuit sleeve, over and around the arm belonging to Peter Bernardone, the animal rescue caretaker.

Will sits with Peter Bernardone; though the ward is open and sunny, Peter's outfit resembles Will's BSHCI jumpsuit. Will is showing him photos from the truck stop crime scene.

Will Graham: "Bear or a wolf?"

Will watches as Peter reviews photos, glancing down to see a rat crawling from inside Peter's shoulder to perch on the back of his hand. A wild rat. A resident.

Peter Bernardone: "That's Kevin. Don't stare. They'll take him away."

Peter quietly tucks Kevin the rat into his other sleeve. He looks away and points at the photographs.

Peter Bernardone: "Bear. Wolf."

Will Graham: "Do bears and wolves hunt together?"

Peter Bernardone: "A bear doesn't look in the mirror and see a bear. Just sees itself. Can train a bear to be a wolf, wolf a bear. Train them long enough, they hunt together, eat together. Enough time, circumstances, there's a lot I could train even you to do."

Will considers that a moment.

Will Graham: "Does a bear forget it's a bear?"

Peter Bernardone: "Doesn't matter. Wolf won't forget what the bear is. He never forgets the bear is bigger. Stronger. And would kill him if it needed to. Instinct makes them remember that."

Will Graham: "That sort of friendship can keep you on your toes."

Peter Bernardone: "Animals have friendships just like we do. Oldest works of art are half-human, half-animal drawings on cave walls. They figured it out thirty thousand years ago. We're the same."

Will Graham: "A bear may not recognize its reflection, Peter, but we have to."

Peter Bernardone: "Do we? The more a man forgets himself, tending to another creature, the more he sees how human he is."

Will considers Peter's view.

Will Graham: "I'll try to remember that."

Peter Bernardone: "Don't blame the animals. Man's the only creature that kills to kill."

INT. SUBURBAN BASEMENT – DAY

Fingers screw air hoses into a two-foot-long tank of compressed air. The hoses run to a pair of pneumatic pistons, stitched parallel to one another into the back of a canvas vest slung over a chair.

An intense young man works silently, spraying graphite onto the piston rods. He turns the air tank gauge, pressurizing the contraption.

Behind the man on the workbench are a pair of bear forepaws. But they lie limp and empty, mitts bearing long, sharp—and real—claws. Straps and buckles hang off the mitts' sleeve ends.

The man pushes a trigger switch and the pistons on the canvas vest shoot up in unison with an asthmatic wheeze, followed by an off-screen clack.

The pistons are attached to hinged headgear. Affixed to the headgear, in a craftsman's meld of machine and monstrosity, are the formidable jaws of a wolf skull.

The headgear holds the jaws open. Straps hang off the back, ready to be secured around the wearer's own head. A killing mask, hand-constructed and with a specific purpose.

Another click of the switch, a pneumatic wheeze and clack!

The jaws snap shut.

The man places a broom handle in between them. Clack. The wood splinters. Satisfied, the man begins scraping spatters of blood from the bone muzzle...

EXT. BEACH – NIGHT

A huge bonfire roars on the snowy shore. A young couple, well-dressed and dressed for the cold, approach. We hear the distant music of the party they've just abandoned for each other's company.

In the shadowy trees, the faintest outline of the beast can be seen, a shape wrapped in the inkiness of night. The view pushes past its teeth, into the jaws until dead eyes hang in the darkness of the beast's mouth, staring coldly.

The man catches a glimpse of something in the darkness beyond the bonfire. He squints, looking closer.

Man: "Katrina... give me your hand."

She reaches for his hand and takes it. Then, bam. The beast hits the man, hard, his hand snatched out of the woman's hand, violently driving him out of frame. Goose down explodes from his coat and his torso is slashed open.

The woman hits the ground, scattering away behind the fire.

The beast smashes the man into the snow, pouncing. Glimpses and flashes across fang and claw as the man takes a breath to scream and then, with a pneumatic wheeze and clack of jaws, it stops before it even starts.

The woman scrambles, turning to run, but not looking where she's going. Her foot catches on the ice of the frozen lake, and she falls face first onto the ice with a horrible crack, breaking her nose and knocking her unconscious.

We hear the woman's dazed breathing. She's coming to.

A loud step. Crick-crack. She finally raises her head and screams, scrambling to her feet just as the beast lands where she was lying. The woman runs for the beach, trying to gain traction on the slippery ice.

Her feet finally make the shore as she runs toward the bonfire. She turns to see if the beast is behind her.

Off the frozen lake, the beast charges out of the darkness. A shadowy blur, claws splayed.

The beast leaps on the woman and takes her down. The jaws flash, gnash and rip out her throat.

The fire’s sparks trail smoke up into the night.

INT. MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY – DINOSAUR ROOM - DAY

An eight-inch fang is held delicately in a man's fingertips.

Randall Tier is fitting the tooth into a sabertooth cat skeleton he's re-articulating. He's bright-eyed and engaged with the predator he's honoring with restoration. He senses a presence in the room and glances behind him.

Randall Tier: "Museum's closed."

Hannibal Lecter is standing in half-shadow. Randall is caught off guard, but he covers quickly and manages a half smile.

Hannibal Lecter: "Hello, Randall."

Randall Tier: "Dr. Lecter."

Hannibal steps out of the shadows. Fossilized bones of all sizes are arranged on display. Hannibal takes them in, his gaze landing on Randall's sabertooth skull.

Hannibal Lecter: "You'll always be ruled by your fascination with teeth."

Randall Tier: "That's what you said to me when they brought me into your office the very first time."

Hannibal Lecter: "Is that what I said?"

Randall Tier: "I was crying, dreading telling you what was wrong with me. You made it easy then, and other visits, too."

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you remember what I told you, Randall? If you try, you can remember everything we ever said."

Randall Tier: "You said you felt like you peeked in my ear and could see what I am."

Hannibal draws closer, almost fatherly.

Hannibal Lecter: "A therapist's life is equal parts counsel and curiosity. We set a patient on a path, but are left to wonder where that path takes them. You've come so very far, Randall."

Randall Tier: "A long time since you treated me."

Hannibal Lecter: "Which is why I wanted to talk to you about your wonderful progress, just for a moment, privately. I've seen what you've done."

Randall Tier: "What have I done?"

Hannibal Lecter: "You bore screams as a sculptor bears dust from the beaten stone. That crying boy doesn't cling to you anymore. What clings to you now? What clings to your teeth?"

Randall Tier: "Ragged bits of scalp trailing their tails of hair like comets."

Hannibal Lecter: "Beautiful. They're looking for you."

Randall Tier: "I don't think I can stop."

Hannibal Lecter: "I don't want you to. They're going to find you, Randall. When they do, it's important that you do exactly what I say."

EXT. BEACH - DAY

The bonfire has been reduced to ash. Around its black smudge, agents process the scene. Zeller confers with Jack over the forensics of the slaughter.

Will consults the police report in his hand and walks the periphery of the scene. He looks from one dead body, past it to the trees where the attacker hid, lying in wait. He looks down the beach to where more agents work another body.

He breathes deep and exhales. He closes his eyes. We hear the slow thud of his heartbeat. The ambient hum of his circulatory system.

A pendulum swings in the darkness of Will Graham's mind, keeping rhythm with his heartbeat. Fwum. Fwum.

With his eyes still closed, the pendulum swings behind him. Jack and the BAU agents are gone.

The dead fire ash smolders and glows and flames sprout and grow larger. Daylight fades fast, replaced by pitch-black night.

The young couple reappear around the flames, alive and talking. The scene has been decriminalized in Will Graham's head and the previous night restored.

He watches the young couple standing near the bonfire, cuddled. As the view pulls back, the black stag steps out of the shadows behind Will.

Together, Will and his black stag watch the couple on the beach. The man stops, glancing their direction from around the bonfire. He takes the woman's hand and looks closer.

A moment, then:

Will Graham: "Kill."

The black stag charges across the beach.

From the black stag's point of view, the dagger-like points of the antlers creep into frame as it gallops toward the couple.

The black stag hits the man, hard, his hand snatched out of the woman's hand, violently driving him into the ground in a vicious pounce. Goose down explodes from his coat and his torso is slashed again. The woman screams.

In slow motion, the antlers slash through frame, cutting off the woman's scream by tearing the throat from her neck.

Warm blood sprays across snow, melting it in crimson streaks. It sprays into the fire, sizzling.

The antlers are attached to Will who is covered with blood—as it was his antlers that just tore out the woman's throat. He looks down at her dead body, his eyes black.

The antlers are receding into his body. He blinks and his eyes return to normal. Night becomes day.

EXT. BEACH - DAY

Will opens his eyes. Jack is nearby.

Will Graham: "It's not an animal. It's a man who wants to be an animal."

Jack Crawford: "Does he believe he's an animal?"

Will Graham: "It's not what he believes, it's what he imagines."

Jack Crawford: "Considering the savagery of the attacks, he's clean and organized. Meticulous, even. What does he want?"

Will Graham: "He wants to maul. This isn't personal. He doesn't know them. He doesn't need to know them. They're just meat to him. Prey."

Jack Crawford: "This kind of psychosis doesn't just slip through the system. Someone somewhere would have noticed."

Will Graham: "If it is psychosis, he got inside it somehow. Tamed it, made a suit of it. He's an engineer. Or understands engineering. He can build things. He built his beast. He's a student of predators."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Will stares past Hannibal, silent.

Hannibal Lecter: "'No beast is more savage than man when possessed with power answerable to his own rage.'"

Will Graham: "It's not rage. Rage is an emotional response to being provoked. This is something else."

Hannibal Lecter: "What is it?"

Will Graham: "Instinct. It's the way he thinks."

Hannibal Lecter: "The way any animal thinks depends on limitations of mind and body. If we learn our limitations too soon, we never learn our power."

Will Graham: "He tore his victims apart. I'd say he learned his power."

Hannibal Lecter: "He claimed his power. Can you imagine tearing someone apart or would you prefer to use a gun?"

Will Graham: "Guns lack intimacy."

Hannibal Lecter: "You set an event in motion with a gun. You don't complete it. You fantasized about killing me with your hands. Wouldn't that be more satisfying than pulling a trigger?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

Hannibal Lecter: "When you so discourteously sent a man to kill me, were you imagining killing me yourself? Living vicariously through him as if your hands tightened the noose around my neck? Or were you simply hiding?"

Will Graham: "I wasn't hiding from anything the first time I tried to kill you."

Hannibal Lecter: "You were hiding behind a gun. You must allow yourself to be intimate with your instincts, Will."

INT. BAU – EVIDENCE PROCESSING - DAY

The view pulls out of darkness, revealing bone structures wrapping around the frame. We are inside the eye socket of a prehistoric cave bear skull.

Brian Zeller and Jimmy Price stand opposite Jack Crawford, between them a cave bear skull and a dire wolf skull.

Brian Zeller: "The closest comparative bite radius we could match to the victims' wounds was a cave bear."

Jimmy Price: "Even a dire wolf, which is the largest species in the genus Canis, is itty-bitty by comparison."

Brian Zeller: "But a cave bear couldn't do this."

Jimmy Price: "Mostly because they're vegetarians and have been extinct twenty-eight thousand years."

Brian Zeller: "Mostly because the bite force relative to skull size couldn't do the kind of damage we've seen."

Jack Crawford: "What could?"

Brian Zeller: "Pull-ratchets or pneumatics, maybe."

Jack Crawford: "Pretty sophisticated ingenuity for any kind of animal, man or beast."

Hannibal Lecter is standing in the doorway.

Hannibal Lecter: "Animals are far more like humans than we ever realized. And humans are far more like animals. One thin barrier between us."

Jack Crawford: "For some, that barrier's too thin. Hello, Dr. Lecter. How does something like this present?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Someone affected by this kind of species dysphoria typically has other conditions. Mood disorders, clinical depression, schizophrenia."

Jack Crawford: "Typically."

Hannibal Lecter: "They may not present at all. Your killer could have built a bridge between who he appears to be and what he now knows he's become."

Jack Crawford: "He didn't build a bridge, Dr. Lecter. He built a suit."

Hannibal Lecter: "What he seeks is transformation."

Jack Crawford: "You ever see anything like this?"

Hannibal hesitates, guides Jack a few feet away for privacy.

Hannibal Lecter: "This threatens to be a violation of doctor-patient confidentiality, so I will tread carefully."

Jack Crawford: "You have seen something like this."

Hannibal Lecter: "Years ago, I treated a patient who fits this profile. A teenage boy who suffered from what I would describe as an identity disorder."

Jack Crawford: "This boy imagined himself a beast?"

Hannibal Lecter: "During our therapy, he reported a moment of clarity. He understood, in that moment, he was an animal born in the body of a man. He kept a solitary life. He'd hide and behave in ways resembling animal behavior. Predatory."

Jack Crawford: "He was delusional."

Hannibal Lecter: "Not necessarily. He didn't believe metamorphosis could physically take place, but that wouldn't stop him from trying to achieve it."

Jack Crawford: "He'd be a grown man now?"

Hannibal Lecter: "As he grew in wisdom and in confidence, he would no longer feel he had to meet his needs in hiding."

Jack Crawford: "What are his needs, Dr. Lecter?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Savagery."

INT. MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY – DINOSAUR ROOM - DAY

Randall Tier walks forward, eyes fixed ahead of him. He is cool, calm, resolved, confident. Dead-eyed.

Jack Crawford and Will Graham, a tyrannosaurus looming over them, wait as Randall approaches.

Jack Crawford: "Randall Tier?"

Randall Tier: "You wanted to speak to me?"

Jack Crawford: "I'm Special Agent Jack Crawford with the FBI. This is Will Graham. Did you put this together?"

Jack gestures to the sabertooth cat skeleton. Now completed, it stares sightlessly at Will who gazes back.

Randall Tier: "Yes."

Jack admires a wall of various skulls.

Jack Crawford: "Nice work. What's this one here?"

Randall Tier: "A cave bear."

Jack considers that good-naturedly.

Jack Crawford: "Ever put one of them together?"

Randall Tier: "Put them together, take them apart, put them together again."

Jack Crawford: "Then you understand their mechanics, how they're engineered?"

Randall Tier: "We understand a lot about cave bears. Their fossils have been found in the tens of thousands, all over southern Europe. They're very common. Common enough you can get one on eBay. 'Buy it now.'"

Jack Crawford: "I'm asking, Randall, because the skull of a cave bear was recently used as a murder weapon. At least its jaws were. Claws, too."

Randall Tier: "Prehistoric skulls and claws were designed to do what they do best."

Will Graham: "Used the right tools for the job."

Randall Tier: "But it's what's inside the skull that tells you what the job is."

Jack Crawford: "You have a history with trouble inside your skull, Mr. Tier."

Randall Tier winces, feeling the slight.

Randall Tier: "That what this is about? You think I killed someone with a fossil? I had an identity disorder. Doctors told me the internal map of my body didn't match reality. Do you know what it's like when the skin you're wearing doesn't fit?"

Will Graham: "I can imagine."

Randall Tier: "I know who I am now. I'm much better. I'm socializing. I'm taking my medication. I'm employed. I work very hard. I'm proof mental illness is treatable."

The view pushes in on Will as he finds legitimacy in Randall Tier's reply, and suspicion.

INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

A turkey goes into a meat grinder and emerges as raw meat. Finely chopped rosemary and cooking rice are added. In a dutch oven, the ground meat, rice, rosemary and broth are mixed and stirred. It boils and simmers.

Will ladles the homemade dog food into a series of dog bowls.

Will appears in the kitchen doorframe and rattles a spoon in the empty Dutch oven—as good as a dinner bell. He leaves the frame. When no dogs come running, he returns and is perplexed by what he sees.

All of Will's dogs sit facing the front door as one.

Is there something outside? Did someone knock? Will makes his way through his pack and slowly opens the door.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Will sees Margot Verger climbing out of a luxury car in his driveway. The dogs erupt into barks and Will steps outside, shutting the door behind him, effectively muffling the dogs.

Margot Verger: "Sorry for the intrusion. We met outside Dr. Lecter's office."

Will Graham: "I remember. How did you find me?"

Margot Verger: "Turns out, you are famous."

Will Graham: "You're not exactly anonymous yourself, Margot."

Margot Verger: "It's cold. You have any whiskey?"

INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Whiskey splashes into an empty glass. Will Graham hands Margot Verger the glass, taking a drink of his own.

Will Graham: "What's the heir to the Verger meatpacking dynasty doing at my door?"

Margot Verger: "My brother's the heir, not me. I've got the wrong parts and the wrong proclivity for parts."

Something fresh about her frankness, likeable.

Will Graham: "Didn't answer my question."

Margot Verger: "I'm here for a character reference. Patient to patient. What do you think of Dr. Lecter's therapy?"

Will Graham: "Depends what you're in therapy for."

Margot Verger: "I'm in therapy for all sorts of reasons. The Vergers slaughter eighty-six thousand cattle a day and thirty-six thousand pigs, depending on the season. That's just the public carnage."

Will Graham: "What's your private carnage?"

Margot Verger: "I tried to murder my brother."

Will studies her.

Will Graham: "I assume he had it coming."

Margot Verger: "Did he ever. What's your private carnage?"

Will Graham: "I tried to murder Dr. Lecter."

Margot Verger: "See, now that's interesting. Did he have it coming?"

Will studies her, debates answering that, then decides not to.

Will Graham: "What do you think?"

Margot Verger: "I can't say that I know."

Will Graham: "Neither can I."

Margot Verger: "Sounds like we have similar issues. I doubt Dr. Lecter gave you the same advice on murder he gave me."

Will Graham: "What's that?"

Margot Verger: "He told me, if at first I don't succeed, I should try, try again."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE – DAY

Will is in a session with Hannibal Lecter, pacing the room, avoiding the chair.

Will Graham: "I'm curious what would happen if your patients started comparing notes, Dr. Lecter. What would Randall Tier have to say to me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "What did Randall Tier say to you?"

Will Graham: "He said he was much better now. That mental illness was treatable. Randall Tier is a success story."

Hannibal Lecter: "You believe he's innocent?"

Will Graham: "I believe your therapy was successful. You can be persuasive."

Hannibal Lecter: "Persuasion is not coercion."

Will Graham: "How many have there been? Like Randall Tier? Like me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Every patient is unique."

Will Graham: "Your psychiatrist came to visit me at the hospital before my trial."

Hannibal Lecter: "Dr. Du Maurier."

Will Graham: "She told me she believed me. She knew there were others like me."

Hannibal Lecter: "Fascinating."

Will Graham: "Did you kill her?"

Hannibal Lecter: "No."

Will studies Hannibal a moment.

Will Graham: "What do you think about when you think about killing?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I think about God."

Will Graham: "Good and evil?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Good and evil has nothing to do with God. I collect church collapses. Did you see the recent one in Sicily? The facade fell on sixty-five grandmothers during a special Mass. Was that evil? Was that God? If He's up there, He just loves it. Typhoid and swans, it all comes from the same place."

Will Graham: "Does Randall Tier believe in God?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Perhaps you should have a more-personal conversation with Mr. Tier and ask him what he believes."

EXT. WOODS – NIGHT

Randall Tier stands on a snowbound rise, concealed by trees. His killing suit is on, the jaw-mask strapped on and primed to work.

Hannibal Lecter stands in the snow beside him, facing the same direction.

Hannibal Lecter: "The solitude of what you do is to be respected and I intend to honor that. I've only come to offer you words of encouragement."

Tier says nothing. In his killing suit, in this state of mind, there are no words. Hannibal senses as much.

Hannibal Lecter: "You are becoming, Randall, and this beast is your higher self. Your bodies, voices and wills are one."

Hannibal looks past the killing jaws, into Randall's eyes.

Hannibal Lecter: "Revel in what you are."

His words ring of the same encouragement Hannibal has given Will Graham and Margot Verger both. Tier remains silent as he and Hannibal turn to the site they were facing before: Will Graham's house, its windows lit warm and yellow from inside.

INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Through the kitchen door, Will enters the room to see his dogs sitting again, all facing the front door.

Will crosses directly to the entrance. But this time the stoop is empty. Nothing but the cold, dark night. Will and his dogs look around, sensing something is amiss.

But one dog takes its instinct one further and bolts through the open door and tears off into the darkness.

Will and the other dogs pause, uncertain—until the escaped dog's yelp splits the night.

A key opens the lock on Will's old gun cabinet. He takes a rifle from its rack. He chambers a shell. Two.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Will bounds down his steps in his shirtsleeves, flushed from the safety of his shelter. He follows the line of his dog's tracks into the deep snow and the deeper darkness.

Randall Tier stands, cloaked in shadow, watching and waiting to face this adversary... and discover how truly worthy he is.

EXT. WOODS – NIGHT

Will enters the trees, armed with his rifle. No movement. No sounds. Tier could be anywhere in the darkness. Behind any tree, concealed by any shadow.

Then, something moves in the snow ahead. Will aims, ready to fire, but sees instead his dog, lying injured. Will rushes to the animal to find it slashed and hobbled, but alive. Will scans the darkness around them and makes a decision. He places his rifle down and scoops his dog up in his arms.

Tier's shadow flits across a tree trunk.

Will, arms full of dog, lumbers fast as he can through the snow. Tier's shape glides past through a row of foreground trees, searching for the moment to strike.

Will and his dog run and stumble, headed for the safety of his house. Tier enters the field behind him and is closing in.

INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Will bangs through the door. He places his injured dog down and locks the front door behind him.

Will moves from switch to switch, extinguishing the lights before cutting through the sudden darkness to the gun cabinet where he finds a handgun.

Tier's shadow crosses the window.

Will's dogs sense his anxiety and they crowd him, uncertain.

Sounds come from outside—a scrape of Tier's clawed feet on the front porch. Will and his dogs face the front door, ready. Will levels his gun at the door. Waits. Then a shadow grows fast on the front window and—K-SHHHHHH!

In slow motion, Tier comes hurtling through it in a cascade of glass and splintered wood, backlit by the blue moonlight.

Will recoils and drops, hands flying up to protect his eyes.

His handgun clatters away into the darkness.

Will's dogs bark at the intruder. Will finds his fishing vest on the floor and fumbles through the many pockets to find a sheathed fillet knife. He pulls it out, the narrow blade catches the moonlight.

Tier stands, shaking off glass like a dog shaking itself dry. Claws splayed, legs apart, ready to face Will.

Will rises up in super slow motion, brandishing his knife, facing forward, his dogs around him, barking and snarling furiously.

INT. SUBURBAN BASEMENT - NIGHT

A fanged resin muzzle and the dire wolf cranium come together to complete the skull. A perfect fit.

Multiple BAU agents sort and bag evidence from the room.

Jack and Hannibal walk the length of Tier's workbench. Past air-filling tanks, strips of bear fur, replacement pistons and rods. Jack stops at the reassembled dire wolf skull.

Hannibal Lecter: "A beast doesn't know it's a beast, but the nearer a man gets to being a beast, the less he knows it."

Jack Crawford: "We took the traps from the drains. Found pieces of scalp, hair still attached. Blood, tissue, bone. Whatever he used to kill, he cleaned it here. We have everything we need to convict Randall Tier. Except Randall Tier. He's vanished."

Hannibal Lecter: "That's troubling."

Jack Crawford: "You knew it. You knew what he was. He was your patient, Dr. Lecter."

Hannibal Lecter: "Every therapist deals in darkness, Jack. I only learn how accurate my treatments are after the fact. When I hear secondhand that a patient is back on track. Or that they're not. Or that they've taken their own life. Or someone else's. Where's Will?"

Jack Crawford: "I haven't been able to reach him."

The view pushes in on Hannibal as he ponders Will's fate.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE – ENTRYWAY - NIGHT

The house is empty.

The sound of a key in the lock and Hannibal enters. He places his coat over a chair and exits into his kitchen.

A beat.

Then Hannibal returns, his eyes on something off-camera. He starts in that direction.

Hannibal enters his dining room, focused on his new table—specifically, its centerpiece.

The centerpiece is Randall Tier, dead. Still clad in his now-defunct killing suit—a warrior's battle gear sapped of its mechanical ferocity.

Hannibal walks a circle around the table. He considers the offering. One akin to a mouse left by the cat for its master.

He is surprised by Will Graham a second time—and pleased.