Uniform and unadulterated snow is marked by a single line of hoof prints. Abruptly, spots of blood join them, glaring and stark against the whiteness. The prints continue and the drops of blood become splotches.

EXT. WINTER WOODS - DAY

Through black and vertical trees, a black stag charges in distress, pursued by something unseen. It rears up, and its hooves slam down as more blood spatters the snow.

The creature's eye is wide, addled, rolling in its socket. The stag bellows one last time and collapses to the forest floor with a resounding fwump. All is still, until an antler point pierces the motionless stag's gut from the inside. More antler points cut through, and then human hands appear, pulling at the flesh.

A man tears from its belly, out onto the soiled snow. It is an antlered Will Graham—The Wildigo, naked and slick in a visceral sheen. The stag that birthed him is gone. Vanished. The Wildigo lies alone, eyes closed, unmoving. Then his mouth snaps open to draw a huge, gasping breath.

INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Will Graham twists in the throes of his fevered dream. An off-screen knocking competes with his pathetic moan. Will Graham finally awakens, disoriented. The knocking comes again.

INT./EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY

Will Graham, in a T-shirt and sweats, opens the front door.

Alana Bloom is on the stoop with applesauce. Will Graham's dogs mill around them, saying hello. Will Graham watches as she bends to pet them.

Will Graham: "Do we do friendly visits anymore?"

Alana Bloom: "This isn't a friendly visit."

Will Graham: "What kind of visit is it?"

Alana Bloom: "I guess I'm trying to convince myself of something. Or maybe I'm trying to convince you."

Alana Bloom is pensive, thoughtful, struggling with confrontation.

Alana Bloom: "Or maybe I don't know why I'm here."

Will Graham: "I know why. You're worried I killed Freddie Lounds."

The statement is matter-of-fact and sits there between them.

Alana Bloom: "Did you?"

Will Graham: "What do you think?"

Alana Bloom: "I think that's the wrong answer to tell somebody who is already wondering what you're capable of."

Will Graham: "Been wondering that for a while."

Alana Bloom: "I know you're lying to me. You've slipped into some kind of skin and I think it fits a little too well."

Will Graham: "I told everyone Hannibal was a killer and no one believed me. Just like no one would believe you if you said I was a killer."

Will Graham's tone chills Alana Bloom. But she's brave and persistent.

Alana Bloom: "I'm afraid, Will. But not of you. I'm afraid for you. I don't think Hannibal is good for you. I think your relationship is destructive."

Will Graham: "Hannibal's good enough for you."

Alana Bloom reacts to that, stung. Will Graham tries to soften his remark.

Will Graham: "You should be afraid. You're right to be afraid. I have something for you."

Will Graham quietly goes inside and returns, brandishing a handgun.

Will Graham: "Whoever you're afraid of... don't be afraid to use it."

Alana Bloom reacts in fear, then Will Graham spins the gun on its trigger guard and offers it to her. He holds her gaze. Alana Bloom takes the gun. And her certainty about him wavers. She sees the old Will Graham for a second.

Will Graham: "Takes 9mm rounds. Buy a box and find a range. Practice."

And he goes back inside. The door swings closed behind him, leaving Alana Bloom alone in the cold.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

The flickering light of an approaching flame illuminates Will Graham's face. Hannibal Lecter places a flaming cocotte on the table in front of Will Graham. As the flames die down, two thumb-sized birds are revealed, sizzling in their own fat and flesh.

Hannibal Lecter: "Among gourmands, the ortolan bunting is considered a rare-but-debauched delicacy. A rite of passage, if you will."

Each of the birds resembles an oval of butter with wings, feet and head still attached.

Hannibal Lecter: "Preparation calls for the songbird to be drowned alive in Armagnac. It is then roasted and consumed whole in a single mouthful."

Will Graham: "Ortolans are endangered."

Hannibal Lecter: "Who amongst us is not?"

Will Graham: "I haven't been gorged, drowned, plucked and roasted. Not yet."

Hannibal Lecter: "Traditionally, during this meal, we're to place shrouds over our heads, hiding our faces from God."

Hannibal Lecter picks up one of the birds by its head.

Hannibal Lecter: "I don't hide from God."

Will Graham picks up his own bird. Raises it in a toast.

Will Graham: "Bones and all?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Bones and all."

Following Hannibal Lecter's lead, Will Graham places the bird in his mouth. As the flavor fills his mouth, Will Graham nods in appreciation. It's clearly delicious, despite the crunching of tiny bones.

Never taking his eyes off of Will Graham, Hannibal Lecter draws in the bird's head and beak, blithely crushing them between his molars before continuing.

Hannibal Lecter: "After my first ortolan, I was euphoric. A stimulating reminder of our power over life and death."

Will Graham: "I was euphoric when I killed Freddie Lounds."

Hannibal Lecter: "Tell me, Will, did your heart race when you murdered her?"

Will Graham: "No. It didn't."

Hannibal Lecter: "A low heart rate is a true indicator of one's capacity for violence. One might say you are genetically predisposed to it."

Will Graham: "This is my design?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Your design is evolving. Your choices affect the physical structures of your brain."

Will Graham: "Killing's changed the way I think."

Hannibal Lecter: "You must understand that blood and breath are only elements undergoing change to fuel your radiance. Just as the source of light is burning."

INT. OFFICE BUILDING - PARKING GARAGE - NIGHT

A uniformed garage attendant sits in his Plexiglas booth, highlighting a textbook. He lifts his head, listening. He steps from his booth and then we hear a sound: EEK. EEK. EEK.

The shape of the underground car park and the conducting power of the cement walls, the sound travels around him.

EEK. EEK. EEK.

The sound grows louder and the attendant pirouettes, trying to pinpoint the source. He stops, eyes on the ramp leading down from the street exit. A yellow light is descending the ramp. A light that fast reveals itself to be a ball of flames. A burning wheelchair with a body strapped into it.

The wheels are eek-eeking faster and faster as it hurtles down, trailing smoke and sparks, the flames blown back like wings.

The attendant leaps aside as the flaming wheelchair and its occupant roars by him. An off-screen crash sounds, and the attendant grabs the booth's fire extinguisher and moves toward the fire. Black smoke roils by.

The view moves in the opposite direction, past the attendant's booth to arrive at a reserved parking space. Vacant now, painted white against the oil-stained cement floor, is a name: F. LOUNDS.

INT. BAU - MORGUE - NIGHT

A death grin, all teeth, is starkly white in the chiaroscuro of blackened, scorched skin. With lips shriveled back, it's almost as though this death mask is grinning at us.

Brian Zeller: "Orthodontics confirmed. It's Freddie Lounds."

The slab bears the burned body of an adult woman. Hair crisp like black hawthorn. Skin charred and cracked open. Jimmy Price and Brian Zeller attend to the body. Will Graham, Hannibal Lecter and Jack Crawford are there as well.

Brian Zeller: "A little kerosene and fwoomp. Incendiary journalism. If she were burned alive, blood would have boiled out of her mouth."

Jimmy Price: "No scabrous crust on her chin. Dead before the match was struck."

Brian Zeller: "Blood already pooled to the lowest points of her body. She'd been dead at least twenty-four hours."

Jack Crawford: "Freddie Lounds's ultimate failing was her inability to keep herself out of her own stories."

Will Graham: "Freddie had the longing need to be noticed. She was noticed."

Hannibal Lecter then leans close to inspect her corpse.

Hannibal Lecter: "Severely-burned bodies tend to split along lines of musculature --"

He points to a jagged opening along the corpse's back.

Hannibal Lecter: "-- but this looks like an incision."

Brian Zeller: "Cut out her psoas muscles. Looks like he used a hunting knife."

Hannibal Lecter: "A peculiar trophy."

Hannibal Lecter glances innocently at Will Graham who averts his eyes.

Jack Crawford: "Why did he burn her?"

Brian Zeller: "How many people has Freddie Lounds burned in her career?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Whoever did this was not striking out against Miss Lounds's exploitative brand of journalism. This is something else. This is something sacred."

Will Graham considers the charred corpse in front of him.

Will Graham: "Freddie Lounds had to burn. She was fuel. Fire destroys, creates. It's mythical. She won't rise from the ashes, but her killer will."

Hannibal Lecter: "He's the one to be noticed now."

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MARGOT'S BATHROOM - DAY

On a rough white surface, color spreads like Cabernet on a linen napkin, except it's blue. The color forms a symbol: a "+" sign. It is a pregnancy test. The test wand droops so that the positive result icon looks like an "X". That image transitions to Margot Verger's unblinking gaze.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Margot Verger sits opposite Hannibal Lecter.

Margot Verger: "There's no baby. Isn't even an embryo yet. I've got hormones in my pee. That's the extent of it. But here I am, feeling maternal."

Hannibal Lecter: "We're discussing a small group of cells. Barely life, but immediately seen to be life-changing."

Margot Verger: "I feel like everything that was done to me can almost be undone."

Hannibal Lecter: "Through children we can disrupt our own sense of the past. We can protect them in ways we weren't."

Margot Verger: "Life eventually bounces back."

Hannibal Lecter: "You can reclaim yours, Margot. But your capacity to care about this child will incur a cost to yourself. How much will you give?"

Margot Verger: "I could be good to a child. I'll go to parenting classes."

Hannibal Lecter: "You've conspired with your unborn child to liberate yourself. You've made Will an unknowing accomplice."

Margot Verger: "I got what I wanted from Will, but I didn't understand what I was taking until the strip turned blue."

She turns, revealing Will Graham has been in the room the entire time, somewhat shell-shocked.

Margot Verger: "I'm not proud of myself."

Will Graham: "Nor should you be. You said--"

Margot Verger: "I lied."

Will Graham: "Did you know?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I was aware of Margot's goal of having a child. I was not aware you were the means to achieving it."

Will Graham: "What do you want from me?"

Margot Verger: "Little or nothing or as much as you'd like to give."

Will Graham: "As much as I'd like to give?"

Margot Verger: "Always thought men were an optional extra in childrearing, but I'm not opposed to a male influence. As long as it's not my brother. He's not good with children."

INT. MUSKRAT FARM - STABLES - DAY

Mason Verger watches as an adult guardian guides a handful of young children past the Verger horses and through the stables, each one wearing floral winners' wreaths.

Mason Verger glances down and sees one straggler, a boy, Franklin (6), staring at him. Mason Verger smiles, charmed and charming.

Mason Verger: "What's your name?"

Franklin: "Franklin."

Mason Verger pulls an apple from his coat pocket and hands it to Franklin. The boy looks uncertain. Mason Verger nods to the horse. Franklin lets the animal eat from his palm. He smiles.

Mason Verger: "Where do you stay, Franklin?"

Franklin: "With Mama and Shirley."

Mason Verger: "Mama’s not your real mama, is she?"

Franklin: "She’s my foster."

Mason Verger: "She’s not the first foster you’ve had, is she, Franklin?"

Franklin: "No."

Mason Verger: "Do you love Mama and Shirley?"

Franklin: "And Kitty Cat."

Franklin nods. Mason Verger kneels beside him and shakes his head.

Mason Verger: "Franklin, you can’t live there anymore with Mama and Shirley and Kitty Cat. You have to go away."

Franklin: "Who says?"

Mason Verger: "The government says. Mama lost her job and her approval as a foster home. You can’t see her anymore after this week. Can’t see Kitty Cat after this week, either."

Franklin: "No."

Mason Verger: "Or maybe they just don’t want you anymore, Franklin. Is there something wrong with you?"

Franklin nervously picks at the tail of his shirt, trying to hide the tears hanging in his eyes. He shakes his head no.

Mason Verger: "Do you know what will happen to Kitty Cat? The policemen will take Kitty Cat to the pound and a doctor there will give her a shot. She’ll be so scared when she sees the needle. They’ll stick it in and Kitty Cat will hurt and die."

Tears brim in Franklin's eyes despite Mason Verger's cheerful tone.

Mason Verger: "You can save Kitty Cat from getting the shot if you give Kitty Cat some rat poison yourself."

Tears stream down Franklin's face now. Mason Verger smiles.

Mason Verger: "Aw, here now."

Mason Verger removes a sterile swatch from what appears to be a vintage cigarette case and dabs at Franklin's tears. The sterile swab swells with tears.

Mason Verger carefully places the tear-soaked swab back in the case and fishes a foil-wrapped chocolate from his pocket. He tosses it to Franklin, who catches and holds it.

Mason Verger: "Have some chocolate."

The sterile swab is dropped into a martini and stirred.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal Lecter watches as Mason Verger casually paces his office, anxiety feigning as interest in the decor.

Mason Verger: "You have a beautiful things, doctor. I grew up with huge wealth, but my father was self-made from rough stock. He was a hard man, proud of his rise, so he bought things that rich people buy, ugly things. When he died, I threw it all away. He had no eye for the exquisite. But you do."

Hannibal Lecter watches Mason Verger pace, finally settling into his chair.

Mason Verger: "I want to tell you about camp. It was a wonderful childhood experience that I've come back to. My father would pay for the whole thing, every summer, all 125 campers on Lake Michigan."

Hannibal Lecter: "Your father was a generous man."

Mason Verger: "I continue his charitable work today. Most of these campers are unfortunates and they will do anything for a candy bar."

The bait dangles a moment, but Hannibal Lecter doesn't take it. He studies Mason Verger inscrutably until he continues.

Mason Verger: "Maybe I took advantage, maybe I was rough with them if they wouldn't take the chocolate and do what I said. I'm not holding anything back. It's all okay now. I got a walk on all the charges."

Hannibal Lecter: "Your penance?"

Mason Verger: "I did five hundred hours of community service, worked at the dog pound and received court-ordered therapy."

Hannibal Lecter: "Was therapy helpful?"

Mason Verger: "I got the doctor involved in something unethical so he'd cut me some slack."

Hannibal Lecter: "That's not helpful."

Mason Verger: "I was aware at a very early age of my willingness to inflict damage on those around me. Papa called it 'altruistic punishment.'"

Hannibal Lecter: "More commonly referred to as 'spite.'"

Mason Verger: "Papa was a prodigy in the field of meat. But his real genius was for human nature. He could look at a man and see his weakness."

Hannibal Lecter: "Could he see yours?"

Mason Verger: "He saw my sister's."

Hannibal Lecter: "Yet he shaped Margot as clearly and certainly as he shaped you. Your father is dead. A boy's illusions are no basis for a man's life, Mason. Margot is the only family you have left."

Mason Verger: "My sister loves me, Dr. Lecter. She has to -- or she's destitute."

Hannibal Lecter: "Vergers are noted expansionists."

Mason Verger: "I am the sole Verger heir."

Hannibal Lecter: "Unless biology provides another."

EXT. CEMETERY - GRAVESITE - DAY

Skeletal trees, black and stark in winter, stand over a snow-shrouded cemetery. The freshly-dug grave and its mound of earth are dark against the surrounding snow. A wreath commemorates Freddie Lounds, sat atop a coffin at the graveside.

An intimate group of mourners are seated under a canopy, family and colleagues. They face the priest who presides over Freddie's inhumation.

Priest: "Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever."

Alana Bloom watches the intimate group of mourners, but is more interested in the cemetery beyond. She waits. At last, she sees what it is she's searching for: Will Graham.

He's mostly obscured by a tree a dozen yards away. He notices Alana Bloom's gaze and approaches her.

Will Graham: "Funeral was long at the chapel and it's long at the graveside."

Alana Bloom: "I'm here to mourn Freddie Lounds. Can't imagine it's why you're here."

Will Graham: "All sorts of reasons why I would go to Freddie Lounds's funeral. All sorts of reasons why you would go."

Alana Bloom: "Which reason are you here for?"

Will Graham: "It's common for a killer to revisit their victims after death. Attend funerals, return to crime scenes."

Alana Bloom eyes Will Graham, not amused.

Alana Bloom: "Anyone suspicious?"

Will Graham: "Besides me?"

Alana Bloom: "That was implied."

Will Graham: "You were expecting me."

Alana Bloom: "It's common for a killer to revisit their victims after death."

Will Graham: "I'm not here to dance on Freddie Lounds's grave, if that's what you're getting at."

Alana Bloom: "Not here looking for her killer, either. Don't seem particularly interested in the crowd."

Will Graham: "Are you profiling me, Dr. Bloom?"

Alana Bloom: "A psychological profile is nothing more than statistical probability. You here makes it that much more probable you're Freddie's killer."

Despite her doggedness in pressing Will Graham, Alana Bloom looks away. By the same token, it pains Will Graham to maintain his cover with the person who cares for him the most.

Will Graham: "I'm here because my psychiatrist suggested it would be therapeutic."

As one, the mourners start away from the gravesite and Alana Bloom starts after them. She continues away in the cold.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Will Graham observes the amber light trapped in a tumbler of Scotch.

Will Graham: "I've been so preoccupied with taking a life, I'm having trouble wrapping my head around making one."

Hannibal Lecter: "When men become fathers, they undergo biochemical changes that affect the way they think."

Will Graham: "You said the same thing happens when men become killers."

Hannibal Lecter: "Fatherhood is not always a nurturing role. Fathers can be killers. In protecting a child, things trapped inside a man for years fly free, ready to explode in pain. And dangerous behavior. What sort of father would you be?"

Will Graham reflects on that, imagining a different life.

Will Graham: "I would be a good father."

Hannibal Lecter smiles warmly. He imagines Will Graham would.

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you see a life flashing before your eyes that's not your own?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

Hannibal Lecter: "How quickly we form attachments to something that does not yet exist."

Will Graham: "I'm not attached. I'm only anticipating attachment."

Hannibal Lecter: "We have a deep-seated need to interact with our children. It helps us discover who we are."

Will Graham: "Have you ever been a father?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I was to my sister. She wasn't my child, but she was my charge. Abigail reminded me so much of her."

That derails Will Graham's train of thought, almost sobering.

Will Graham: "Then why did you kill her?"

Hannibal Lecter: "What happened to Abigail had to happen. There was no other way."

Will Graham: "There was. But there isn't now."

Hannibal Lecter: "Would you protect this child the way you couldn't protect Abigail?"

Will Graham studies Hannibal Lecter.

Will Graham: "I still dream about Abigail. I dream I'm teaching her how to fish."

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm sorry I took that from you. I wish I could give it back."

Will Graham: "So do I."

Hannibal Lecter: "Occasionally, on purpose, I drop a teacup to shatter on the floor. I'm not satisfied when it doesn't gather itself up again. Someday perhaps a cup will come together."

EXT. CEMETERY - NIGHT

Rows of headstones reflect bone white in the moonlight. Time passes, their eerie shadows growing in length before gradually disappearing as the world opens a new day.

The sun fills the frame, cresting the horizon, a hot, shimmering ball.

A figure looms, silhouetted in the morning rays. Its sunlit front reveals a ghoulish representation of Shiva, in multi-armed splendor. Four arms fan out on each side of the torso—eight arms in total. The composite deity is made whole via composite body parts strapped to pose in a state of après-mort meditation.

The head appears much larger than a normal human skull, a result of three heads being strapped together to create a singular monstrosity. The center head faces forward as the ones flanking it point in opposite directions. A third eye leers sightless from a hole gouged into the forehead of the center head.

As the sun continues rising, its light reveals the impromptu Shiva's many additions and accoutrements adorn and emanate from a single body at its core: the charred corpse of Freddie Lounds.

EXT. CEMETERY - FREDDIE LOUNDS'S GRAVESITE - DAY

Brian Zeller moves to reveal the rictus grin of Freddie's corpse. He and Jimmy Price are processing the grotesque Shiva. Will Graham watches them silently.

Brian Zeller: "Extra parts were harvested on-site."

Jimmy Price: "Just one night in the ground. That beats Jesus by forty-eight hours."

Brian Zeller: "Never thought Freddie would make it to heaven, much less get deified."

Alana Bloom is walking toward the gravesite with Jack Crawford. From her perspective, Will Graham stands before the Shiva.

Jimmy Price and Brian Zeller see Jack Crawford and Alana Bloom and nod greetings. Will Graham is impassive. Alana Bloom holds his gaze. Neither looks away. Then Alana Bloom's eyes are drawn back to the Shiva.

Jack Crawford: "This killer is trying to get somebody's attention."

Alana Bloom: "I don't think he wants to be found. He has direction. His chaos is getting more orderly."

Jack Crawford: "First he burns effigies, then he assembles them."

Alana Bloom: "Burning Freddie Lounds wasn't his first effigy. Whoever killed Freddie killed Randall Tier. Mutilated him, dismembered him, put him on display."

Jack Crawford: "What connection do Freddie Lounds and Randall Tier have?"

Alana Bloom: "Will Graham. Randall Tier was his suspect and Hannibal's patient."

Will Graham reacts to this and crosses to Jack Crawford and Alana Bloom.

Alana Bloom: "Freddie was investigating his murder when she died."

Will Graham: "Freddie was investigating a lot of things when she died."

Alana Bloom: "This is a psychopath who has incubated fantasies of killing and is translating them into action. He's building himself up. Or somebody's building him up."

Will Graham: "He could have a benefactor who admires his destruction. Hindus believe that destruction leads to new life. Shiva is destroyer and benefactor."

Alana Bloom: "He's being guided."

Jack Crawford: "This is a signpost?"

Alana Bloom: "Maybe Freddie's killer didn't do this. Maybe his benefactor did."

Jack Crawford: "Why?"

Alana Bloom has a dawning realization.

Alana Bloom: "It's a courtship."

Alana Bloom watches Will Graham intently now, determined.

INT. MUSKRAT FARM - STABLES - DAY

A patch of short, chestnut brown hair darkens as a stream of water dampens it. Margot Verger is giving her horse a bath. As she works her prize horse's coat into a lather, the reflection in the horse's eye catches a man approaching Margot Verger from behind. The horse snorts. Margot Verger turns to see Mason Verger closing rapidly.

Mason Verger: "Good morning."

He kisses his sister on the cheek.

Mason Verger: "Riding agrees with you. Puts color in your cheeks. You have a bloom."

Margot Verger: "It's chilly."

Mason Verger: "You're frequently chilly, Margot."

Margot Verger: "Time to talk about what Mason wants?"

Mason Verger: "I want to talk about the future. I was lying in bed, composing in my mind like the deaf Beethoven, and it occurred to me, for a family who owns breeding stock worldwide, we are not doing much of it ourselves."

Margot Verger: "Breeding?"

Mason Verger: "I'm concerned about the next generation of Vergers. Aren't you?"

Margot Verger: "I'm trying to survive this generation."

Mason Verger: "Meat is, at base, a people business. Nobody understood that better than Papa. Except now for me, of course. Papa would pull me out of school for weeks at a time while he conducted my real education in the stockyards and slaughterhouses."

Margot Verger: "What a wealth of information and resources you have in your skull."

Mason Verger: "Indeed. I need to share that wealth with a little Verger."

Margot Verger: "'A little Verger.'"

Mason Verger: "Don't you want an heir, Margot? I want a Verger baby. My own baby. I've got viable sperm. I think I would have a son. It'd be your heir, too, Auntie Margot."

Margot Verger remains silent. He places a hand on her shoulder.

Mason Verger: "Maybe a child is what we need to bring us together."

Margot Verger: "Maybe it is."

He smiles at the corners of his mouth, studying his sister.

Mason Verger: "I said it before, you've got a bloom, Margot. Rosy. Positively radiant. What's your secret?"

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Will Graham sits with Hannibal Lecter.

Hannibal Lecter: "Every creative act has its destructive consequence."

Will Graham considers that and is compelled to ask.

Will Graham: "What you did to me, what you did to Abigail, was that a creative act or destructive consequence?"

Hannibal Lecter: "The Hindu god Shiva is simultaneous destroyer and creator. Who you were yesterday is laid waste to give rise to who you are today."

Will Graham: "Rise and rise again and again, until the lambs have become lions."

Hannibal Lecter: "Yes."

Will Graham studies Hannibal Lecter a moment.

Will Graham: "How much reality has had to be slandered? How many lies have had to be sanctified? How many consciences devastated?"

Hannibal Lecter: "As many as were necessary."

Will Graham: "You sacrificed Abigail. You cared about her as much as I did."

Hannibal Lecter: "More. But then, how much has God sacrificed?"

Will Graham: "What god do you pray to?"

Hannibal Lecter regards Will Graham as though the answer is obvious.

Hannibal Lecter: "I don't pray. I have not been bothered by any considerations of deity, other than to recognize how my own modest actions pale beside those of God."

Will Graham: "I prayed I would see Abigail again."

Hannibal Lecter: "Your prayer did not go entirely unanswered. You saw part of her. Should the universe contract, should time reverse and teacups come together, a place could be made for Abigail in your world."

Will Graham: "What place is that?"

Hannibal Lecter: "You've lost a child, Will. It seems you're likely to gain one."

From behind Hannibal Lecter, the Wendigo rises up in silhouette.

Hannibal Lecter: "God is beyond measure in wanton malice and matchless in His irony."

The Wendigo itself has transformed as it raises its arms, revealing, Shiva-like, four arms per side—a fan of eight. Will Graham is entranced not by Hannibal Lecter, but the thing behind him.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER’S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal Lecter faces Mason Verger, who grasps his armrests tight.

Mason Verger: "I remember walking the swine fairs with my father, looking over the competition. Papa's little silver knife ever ready to slip out of his waistcoat and into a pig's back to check the depth of fat."

Hannibal Lecter: "Your education was an odd one."

Mason Verger: "Oh, those were some good, funny times. Papa would stick 4-H show pigs who thought everyone was their friend, scrubbed in milk and baby powder. Such coddled things."

Hannibal Lecter: "Part of a show pig's consideration is its happiness."

Mason Verger: "If we were truly considerate of a pig's happiness, we wouldn't eat them."

Hannibal Lecter: "What about Margot's happiness?"

Mason Verger: "Papa taught me how to stick the knife in only as deep as necessary to test the thickness of her skin."

Hannibal Lecter: "You miscalculated, struck a nerve."

Mason Verger: "Margot would love to stick a knife in me, but it wouldn't be to test the thickness of my skin."

Hannibal Lecter: "She tried to kill you once already."

Mason Verger: "'To a male heir confirmed as my descendent...' It's a very clever loophole Margot's found in Papa's will. Clearly, he didn't take into account how resourceful she is."

Hannibal Lecter: "Neither did you."

Mason Verger: "I can be very resourceful, too. If she's not pregnant, she will be. Margot's very tenacious that way."

Hannibal Lecter: "The child would be a Verger. You would have an heir to carry on the family name, to carry on your name."

Mason Verger: "I'd have an heir, only if I die."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

A bottle of wine pours into a glass. Alana Bloom is at a loss, and Hannibal Lecter holds her white wine out to her. Through the ice wine's refraction, she sees Hannibal Lecter's face distorted slightly, bent at the edges.

Hannibal Lecter: "Eiswein. Produced in Niagara Falls. The grapes are left on the vine until nearly winter, a slight freeze before harvest. Its nectar is fresh, sweet and pure, unaffected by the noble rot that attacks other grapes."

Alana Bloom: "I've had enough of the rot, noble or otherwise."

Hannibal Lecter enjoys his wine. Alana Bloom doesn't raise her glass.

Hannibal Lecter: "One can only see what one observes, and one observes only things which are already on the mind. What's on your mind?"

Alana Bloom: "What I keep seeing are pictures of Freddie Lounds. They flash in sudden color, too much color."

Hannibal Lecter: "The color that leaps out of black when lightning strikes the night?"

Alana Bloom: "Yes. I'm feeling pressure to believe something that I don't trust and that pressure's making me paranoid."

Hannibal Lecter: "Who is pressuring you?"

Alana Bloom: "Will."

Hannibal Lecter reacts, disappointed at the mention of Will Graham's name.

Hannibal Lecter: "We'll never really be alone, will we? He'll always be in the room."

Alana Bloom reads Hannibal Lecter.

Alana Bloom: "Do you feel like you're helping him? Making progress?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Will's finally finding himself. He's getting better."

Alana Bloom wishes she could believe Hannibal Lecter in this moment, but is beginning to realize maybe she can't.

Alana Bloom: "Doesn't seem to be getting better. Seems to be getting much worse."

Hannibal Lecter: "Are you questioning my therapy?"

Alana Bloom: "I'm questioning everything. It's all blurry and subjective. I feel empty. Like I've given blood."

Hannibal Lecter: "You've given more than blood."

He pulls her close to him and she touches his cheek. He takes her hand in his and kisses it sensually. His lips gently kiss her fingers. He takes in a breath, smelling the flesh of Alana Bloom's hand.

He looks adoringly at Alana Bloom and kisses her gently on the lips. She returns the kiss, but it's clear she's distracted.

Hannibal Lecter: "Have you been firing a gun?"

Alana Bloom: "Yes."

She makes a point of kissing him more sincerely.

Alana Bloom: "Told you I was feeling paranoid."

EXT. DRIVEWAY - NIGHT

Gloved hands carry expensive luggage and place it on the ground. A key fob is pressed and a trunk pops open. The luggage goes in the trunk, which is then slammed closed. The driver's door opens, a key starts the ignition, and an engine roars.

INT. MARGOT VERGER'S CAR - NIGHT

Margot Verger glides down the dark country road, her face lit by her dash display. She slows the car as it approaches a blinking red stoplight.

EXT. COUNTRY HIGHWAY - CONTROLLED INTERSECTION - NIGHT

No other cars are at the four-way intersection, but Margot Verger makes a full stop all the same. She pulls forward, starting to accelerate when a pair of headlights flare, perpendicular to and hurtling straight at her car.

Her head spins to face the lights, silhouetted, and for an instant, the blinding white fills the car like floodwater, before a smash.

The other vehicle, a pickup truck, broadsides Margot Verger's car full force, plowing it sideways across the intersection, powerful enough to flip it over entirely. Then all is silent again. The red stoplight keeps flashing.

INT. MARGOT VERGER'S CAR - NIGHT

Margot Verger hangs upside down, suspended by her shoulder strap, dotted with sparkles of shattered safety glass. Slowly, she looks out the hole where her driver's window had been.

A pair of work boots shuffle unhurriedly toward her window. When they arrive, the other driver stoops to survey the damage and finally look Margot Verger in the eye. Carlo grins in at her, just a man about his daily work.

INT. BAU - JACK CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - DAY

Alana Bloom takes a breath, her heart racing. She very consciously calms herself before she confesses to a curious Jack Crawford.

Alana Bloom: "The most-terrifying thing in the world can be a lucid moment. What are you up to?"

Jack Crawford: "I'm not sure I know what you're talking about, Dr. Bloom."

Alana Bloom: "I think you know. You're not fooling me, Jack."

Jack Crawford: "I'm not trying to fool you."

Alana Bloom: "You're lying. You're all lying. Will. Hannibal. You're lying to each other and they're lying to you. This isn't in my head. You are hiding something and this will end badly for all of us."

Jack Crawford considers Alana Bloom's state and carefully asks.

Jack Crawford: "What do you believe is happening?"

Alana Bloom: "What do you believe? Do you believe Will killed Freddie Lounds?"

Jack Crawford: "I do not."

Alana Bloom: "Do you believe Dr. Chilton's the Chesapeake Ripper?"

Jack Crawford: "There was overwhelming evidence--"

Alana Bloom: "Stop lying. You think you've moved all your pieces around so cleverly."

Jack Crawford's eyes narrow, studying Alana Bloom.

Jack Crawford: "What's changed, Alana?"

Alana Bloom: "I have no confidence that I know Hannibal Lecter anymore. Even with as much as you know or think you know Hannibal, you don't know him either. And you don't know Will. You're going to lose, Jack. If you haven't lost already."

Jack Crawford stares a long moment.

Jack Crawford: "I want you to come with me."

INT. BAU - CORRIDOR - DAY

Jack Crawford leads Alana Bloom down the hall, toward the conference room. Every step Alana Bloom takes is filled with dread. Jack Crawford opens the door and he firmly ushers her through.

INT. BAU - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Alana Bloom comes through the door, Jack Crawford following behind her. Alana Bloom follows his gaze and stops short, stunned. It's Freddie Lounds.

Freddie Lounds: "How was my funeral?"

Alana Bloom looks at Jack Crawford. Her eyes well up as the gravity of its meaning wallops her. That she has been putting Will Graham in terrible danger.

INT. HOSPITAL - OPERATING ROOM - DAY

Margot Verger's eyes are closed. She lies face up, angelic, at peace. Her eyes flutter open and they're glassy. She struggles to keep them open and blink at a glaring white light. A steady bleep indicates this isn't the afterlife. The bright light is from overhead surgical fixtures. The sound is a heart monitor.

Margot Verger continues to push against anesthesia's narcotic pillow. A silhouetted head moves in to eclipse the light. A face wearing a surgical mask. It leans close and the mask is pulled down. Its lips nearly touch Margot Verger's ear. Mason Verger's lips. Then, calmly, he speaks.

Mason Verger: "Poor Margot. You just can't win."

And for a second time, Mason Verger kisses his sister's cheek. This time she is unable to recoil.

Mason Verger: "As long as you have it in you to produce an heir, you'll be tempted. I have to remove that temptation."

Margot Verger's eyes open in alarm, as wide as they can.

Mason Verger: "They're going to find something wrong with your lady parts, Margot. Or so the record will state. The doctor will advise me that it's best if they take everything."

The off-screen bleep accelerates.

Mason Verger: "I'm afraid the only one you'll be celebrating Mother's Day with is me."

A flurry of surgeons and nurses in scrubs move in to replace him, bustling about their duties like birds upon carrion. Margot Verger's face helplessly succumbs to the drug coursing through her veins. Her eyes close.

INT. HOSPITAL - RECOVERY ROOM - DAY

Will Graham stands at Margot Verger's bedside, looking over her. The ambient hum of his circulatory system is audible. Chest pounding, breathing heavy. His face falls.

He is numb as another figure appears in the doorframe behind him—Hannibal Lecter. He remains there, but Hannibal Lecter's expression, for once, is not entirely inscrutable. There is a minute trace of emotion. Of his own label of sadness. Or of ire.

EXT. MUSKRAT FARM - PIG BARN - NIGHT

Will Graham pulls his car, no lights, to a slow stop amid snow and trees. He kills the engine. He approaches a wrought-iron fence.

As Carlo approaches the barn doors, Will Graham very quickly closes in on him just outside his peripheral vision. Will is upon him.

INT. MUSKRAT FARM - PIG BARN - NIGHT

The barn is dark, but lights burn on a raised platform. Opera music drifts from the speakers. The maze is a black monolith in the center of the floor.

On the raised platform, Mason Verger sits in a wing-back chair, a suckling pig in his arms, and he listens to the music as he strokes it. He stands and looks into the dimly-lit pit, at the rooting pigs, snorting and grunting below him.

He raises a remote control and changes the music. Sudden, horrific screams ring out.

Mason Verger: "Carlo, I don't think they've had enough to eat."

Mason Verger turns and is surprised to see Will Graham standing behind him. Mason Verger shuts off the recorded screams.

Mason Verger: "You must be the baby daddy. Excuse me if I don't offer you a cigar."

Will Graham punches Mason Verger, bloodying his nose. Mason Verger touches the blood and examines it, then laughs in Will Graham's face.

Mason Verger: "I'm going to feed you to my pigs."

Will Graham violently grabs Mason Verger by the scruff of his collar and drags him off his feet and over to the pigpen opening.

Mason Verger: "Carlo? Carlo."

Will Graham roughly pulls Mason Verger to the edge and dangles him partially over the hungry, squealing pigs below. Mason Verger's eyes are more rage-filled than even Will Graham's.

Will Graham: "You think it was Margot's idea to have an heir? Think it was your idea to take it from her? My idea to come here and kill you? What you, your sister and I all have in common is the same psychiatrist."

Will Graham drops Mason Verger on the metal grating, hard. Mason Verger gathers his wits, debating lunging at Will Graham's back. Then Will Graham turns with a gun pointed directly at the prodigal Verger.

Will Graham: "If Dr. Lecter had his dithers, you'd be wrapped around a bullet."

Will Graham tucks the gun back into his holster.

Will Graham: "He's the one you want to be feeding to your pigs..."