EXT. RIVERBANK - DAY

Hazy winter light shines through skeletal tree branches and glints off snow. Highlights reflect off the water of a river in the distance. Jack Crawford and Will Graham are on the ice of the frozen waterway. Ice fishing. Will is unhooking a trout he has just caught. He deftly unhooks it as Jack looks on. A bucket of ice lies on the ice next to Will, filled with live trout. Jack breathes frosty air and claps his gloved hands together. Out of his element.

Jack Crawford: "I get it. The great outdoors. I get the attraction. In the summer."

Will Graham: "Trout are harder to catch when the water is really cold."

Jack Crawford: "That's another argument for summer. Thought trout were hunters. They should be chewing on my hook."

Will Graham: "In the cold, their metabolisms drop. They're not as hungry."

Jack Crawford: "That's the question. How do you catch a fish who isn't hungry?"

Will Graham: "You have to change tactics. Use live bait that moves and excites them to action. Gotta make him bite even though he's not hungry."

Jack Crawford: "Make him act on instinct. He's always a predator."

Will Graham: "You have to create a reality where only you and the fish exist, where your lure becomes what he wants most, despite everything he knows."

Jack Crawford: "Wrong move and he swims away."

Will looks at Jack.

Will Graham: "I'm a good fisherman, Jack."

Will picks up his fishing gear, hands Jack some stuff to carry and they start heading for home.

Jack Crawford: "You hook him, I'll land him."

A knife blade whisks through vegetables, creating medallions that are scooped up and placed in a court bouillon. A trout is plucked from a container of water. From under the head, without opening the belly of the trout, the insides are removed by the Gilles cavity. It is immediately splashed with vinegar. The trout is placed in the near-boiling pan and its skin immediately turns blue.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter is engrossed in his work. Three blue-skinned trout are presented with their tails flipped under and pulled through their mouths, as if the trout has swallowed its own tail. The dishes are picked up as Hannibal Lecter places them on the dining room table.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Will Graham and Jack Crawford sit opposite one another as the fish is placed between them. Hannibal Lecter pours wine.

Hannibal Lecter: "Truite saumonée au bleau with vegetables and broth, served with hollandaise sauce on the side. Beautiful fish, Will."

Will Graham: "It was my turn to provide the meat."

Hannibal Lecter: "More flavorful and firm than farmed specimens. I find the trout to be a very Nietzsche-ian fish. Trials of his wild existence find their way into the flavor of the flesh."

Hannibal Lecter serves food onto each of their plates. Then:

Hannibal Lecter: "I hope "providing the meat" doesn't mean you still harbor doubts about what I serve at my table."

As Hannibal Lecter sits. Will Graham doesn't answer; Jack Crawford answers for him.

Jack Crawford: "No doubts, Dr. Lecter. Only the wounds we dealt each other before we got to the truth."

Hannibal Lecter: "Which is why we need to move past apologies and forgiveness. Chilton has many victims besides the dead."

Jack Crawford looks at Will Graham, nods at this.

Hannibal Lecter: "We will absorb this experience and it will change us. We are all Nietzsche-ian fish in that regard."

Will Graham: "Makes us tastier."

Hannibal Lecter considers Will Graham.

Jack Crawford: "None of our actions were personal."

Will Graham: "I tried to have Hannibal killed. Isn't that personal?"

Hannibal Lecter: "You thought I was a killer."

Jack Crawford: "I don't blame Miriam Lass for shooting Frederick Chilton. I wanted to kill him myself."

Jack Crawford looks from Hannibal Lecter to Will Graham. Unwilling to commit.

Hannibal Lecter: "Greatest crime now would be to walk away from what we've shared and suffered. In many ways, we need each other. We're the only ones who will know what this feels like."

Will Graham: "This fish is delicious."

He holds Hannibal Lecter's gaze.

EXT. HORSE STABLE - DAY

A traditional barn-like building surrounded by a paddock with horses that stamp and snort, their breath misting the cold.

INT. HORSE STABLE - DAY

A stable hand is leading a veterinarian with his bag into the stable.

Stable Hand: "I came in this morning and found all the horses with hoods on. She was lying dead in her stall."

In a stable, a dead horse lies on its side, stomach extended.

Veterinarian: "She had a foal two days ago?"

Stable Hand: "It was born dead. She hasn't eaten since, pining I guess."

The veterinarian bends to examine the dead horse.

Veterinarian: "Feels like she's still pregnant. Did they check for twins?"

The stable hand shrugs, doesn't know. The veterinarian looks unimpressed with the medical work.

Veterinarian: "Who performed this C-section?"

Stable Hand: "She didn't have a C-section."

The veterinarian looks confused. Leans back so the stable hand can see a rough line of stitches across the horse's belly.

Stable Hand: "Those weren't there yesterday."

For a moment, confusion clouds the veterinarian's face. Then he makes a decision. Reaching into his medical bag, he finds a scalpel and cuts the stitches loose. He reaches through the thick wall of muscle with a gloved arm and then pulls the innards free. As the horse's insides pour out onto the floor, entangled in the guts and organs is the nude body of a young woman. The veterinarian falls back in horror at his discovery.

INT. HORSE STABLE - NIGHT

The reflection across the dead horse's dulled black eye shows Hannibal Lecter as he kneels. He studies the dead horse's face, running a hand across its neck, almost unconsciously. Jack Crawford is standing over him.

Hannibal Lecter: "I agree with the pagans. The horse is divine. All beasts of burden are sacred animals."

Jack Crawford: "This kind of mutilation often presents as cult activity."

Brian Zeller unpacks his kit next to the woman, now lying on a sheet of plastic. Jimmy Price stands over the horse, photographs the sutures and incision. He cranes his camera, trying to get a good angle in the abdominal cavity.

Jimmy Price: "When an animal's sacrificed, it's presumed the power of the beast will be psychically transported to whoever's offering up the goods."

Hannibal Lecter: "Which is why sacrificial animals should be healthy, without any defects. This horse was dying."

Brian Zeller: "Its womb was more or less intact."

An ultraviolet light suddenly shines down on the woman revealing a constellation of small bruises on her throat. Brian Zeller holds a portable ultraviolet lamp.

Brian Zeller: "Victim was deceased before she was enwombed. Ecchymosis of the subcutaneous tissue is consistent--"

Jimmy Price: "She was strangled."

Zeller tucks the lamp away, grabs a flashlight and peels back an eyelid to find the whites of the eye are blood red.

Brian Zeller: "She was scrappy. Put up a fight."

Jack Crawford and Hannibal Lecter watch and listen nearby.

Hannibal Lecter: "The horse is a chrysalis, a cocoon meant to hold the young woman until her death can be transformed."

Jack Crawford: "Transformed into what?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Life. A new life. This is a birth. Or it was intended to be. This is every bit as much about giving life as it is taking it."

Jack Crawford: "What's the thinking?"

Hannibal Lecter studies the macabre madness laid out before him.

Hannibal Lecter: "Conflicted. I see what he's done. I don't understand why he's done it. This killer doesn't think like anyone else, Jack. You'll need someone who doesn't think like anyone else to catch him."

Strands of long brown hair whip through the frame. Sweat forms and flows from a naked back. It arches and plunges, twisting in sheets, entwined with another naked form. Alana Bloom comes into focus as she climaxes.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Alana Bloom is flushed, the sheet tucked under her arms. A glass of cold white wine, sheened with condensation, is handed to her. She sits up, the sheet still around her, and Hannibal Lecter is revealed, having passed her the glass. Shirtless beside her.

Alana Bloom: "It's one way to change the subject. I'm not complaining, but part of me suspects we ended up here to avoid where our conversation was going."

Hannibal Lecter: "As long as you're not complaining."

Alana Bloom: "What are you doing, Hannibal?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Recovering."

Alana Bloom: "Too much has happened for us not to talk about this. However pleasant the distractions."

Hannibal Lecter: "I am recovering. From all that has happened. So is Will. So are you. I would change many things, but not that they brought us here. Or that they brought Will back to therapy."

He leans back and she rolls to him, leans against his chest, looking him in the eye. Sips her wine.

Alana Bloom: "The only thing stranger than finding a woman inside a horse is seeing you back in therapy with Will Graham."

Hannibal Lecter: "Is it really so strange?"

Alana Bloom: "He tried to murder you."

Hannibal Lecter: "Circumstances have changed for Will. They've changed for me. The revelation of Frederick Chilton's guilt has shifted perspective."

Alana Bloom: "I'm not convinced Will thinks Frederick Chilton was guilty."

Hannibal Lecter: "Why would he lie?"

Alana Bloom: "He's suppressing the truth about what he's feeling and substituting it with something else."

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you know why Will tried to kill me? Wasn't to avenge Beverly Katz's death. It was to prevent yours. He was protecting you. The only way he felt he had left to him."

That lands. Alana Bloom absorbs it. Knows it to be true.

Alana Bloom: "I'm afraid Will opened a door in himself and no one knows if it closed again. Especially not Will."

Hannibal Lecter: "Then it's healthy he's back in therapy with a good psychiatrist."

He sips his wine and raises his glass, looks through the pale green liquid, face distorting.

Exotic fish swim through an aquarium tank. A young woman's face slams into the glass. Meet Margot Verger. A striking beauty in her twenties. A knee presses into her neck. Her arm is wrenched behind her. Her face tenses, bracing against pain, tears welling.

Mason Verger: "You should have taken the chocolate, Margot."

The stoic tears finally spill out past her eyelashes. The tears flowing down her cheeks are stopped by a tiny square of gauze. The gauze swells like a sponge with tears. The tear-filled gauze drops into a chilled martini, followed by olives impaled on a cocktail stick. As the martini is lifted by a masculine hand sporting a distinctive family ring, Margot Verger stands next to a window, her neck still bruised, watching the snowfall.

Hannibal Lecter: "You are no more at fault for what happened to you than if you had been bitten by a mad dog."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER’S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal Lecter sits in his chair, observing Margot Verger by the window.

Margot Verger: "Mad dogs are put down."

Hannibal Lecter: "That what you hoped to accomplish when you attacked your brother?"

Margot Verger: "Apparently, I went about “putting him down” the wrong way. He’s still alive. Should have waited until my arm was healed."

Hannibal Lecter: "Doing bad things to bad people makes us feel good. Did you feel good trying to kill your brother?"

Margot Verger: "Trying wasn’t terribly satisfying."

Margot Verger blinks. Hannibal Lecter watches.

Hannibal Lecter: "What’s your relationship with your brother now? Has it changed?"

Margot Verger: "I think he thinks I’ve calmed down."

Hannibal Lecter: "Have you?"

Margot Verger: "Oh, I’m calm."

Hannibal Lecter: "Are you going to try again?"

Margot Verger stares, studying Hannibal Lecter.

Margot Verger: "This is where therapy gets tricky."

Hannibal Lecter: "It doesn't have to be tricky."

Margot Verger: "I could confess to a murder and you can’t say a word. I could’ve killed someone this morning and you can’t say a word. But if I’m planning to commit a murder..."

Hannibal Lecter: "I am ethically obligated to take action to prevent that murder. Be that as it may, if there’s no one else to protect you, Margot, you have to protect yourself. It would actually have been more therapeutic if you had killed him."

A body bag is unzipped revealing the body of Sarah Craber, the body enwombed in the dead horse.

Jimmy Price: "Her name is Sarah Craber."

INT. BAU - MORGUE - DAY

Jack Crawford observes as Brian Zeller and Jimmy Price hover over Sarah Craber on the examination table.

Jimmy Price: "She was a horse groom at the stables where her body was found. She was reported missing last week."

Brian Zeller: "We have a hand-spread on her neck, but we haven't found anything on her but horse uterus."

Brian Zeller opens the victim's mouth. Shines a light inside.

Jimmy Price: "The uterus isn't always such a safe, nurturing place. Shark fetuses cannibalize each other in utero. And chances are very good that everyone in this room has absorbed a twin. Mine survived."

Brian Zeller: "Her throat's obstructed. Soil. Someone packed it down there pretty deep. There's none in her teeth."

He uses a small tool to remove a clod of dirt from her throat. There's a rush of air as Brian Zeller unplugs the clog. Jimmy Price leans across the body with an evidence bag, collecting the dirt clod Brian Zeller pulled out and fishing for others.

Jimmy Price: "I'll check the pH levels, see what organic matter or trace elements we come up with. Should be able to find out where it came from."

Suddenly, he jumps back, a frightened look on his face.

Jimmy Price: "She has a heartbeat."

Jack Crawford: "She was in rigor--"

Brian Zeller: "There's no pulse."

Jimmy Price: "She has a heartbeat."

Brian Zeller: "She has a heartbeat."

Jack Crawford steps forward, feels the woman's chest.

Jack Crawford: "Something's beating."

A scalpel cuts into the flesh of Sarah Craber's chest. A rib spreader is fastened in place. Brian Zeller cranks the rib spreader and the ribs crack as they spread. He leans in for a closer look at the chest cavity. A still moment, then a robin flutters out of the corpse's chest cavity and flutters wildly about the room. As Brian Zeller and Jimmy Price cover their heads, Jack Crawford stands his ground, unfazed.

INT. HORSE STABLE - DAY

A horse's nostrils flare and his eyes are wide. He tosses his head and shows his teeth. Hooves stamp. Nostrils flare. Tails swish. Horses in the stable stalls are nervous, the feeling communicating between them like an electric current. Will Graham walks backward across the stable in front of the horses, their heads turning to follow him. Will Graham holds a thick case folder under one arm. He stops and looks down at the folder. It is open to a crime scene photo of the barn: the dead horse and Sarah Craber's body. Will Graham closes his eyes. A pendulum swings across the blackness behind his eyes. It clicks into place. His eyes open.

INT. HORSE STABLE - NIGHT

He now stands in deep rural darkness. Will Graham looks to the horses in the stalls, nervously moving and stamping.

Will Graham: "I don't want you to see me. I don't want you to see what I do. I want to calm you, comfort you."

He slides cloth hoods over the horses' heads. Strokes their necks. Murmurs gently. Calming them.

Will Graham: "There's so much comfort in darkness. But not for one of you."

Now Will Graham is leading a horse from its stall. The dead horse-to-be. It too is hooded and stands calmly as Will Graham strokes its neck, and then slides a large needle into its neck. Will Graham holds the horse's head lovingly. He stands over the now-dead horse. The open stable doors are framed like a proscenium arch. Centered within them is Will Graham; the dead woman in his arms. He bears her gently, like Lear carrying his beloved Cordelia. Will Graham carries her to the dead horse. Places her gently on the ground. Next to her, a small, draped cage. Will Graham pulls away the drape to reveal a robin which immediately begins to flutter inside.

Will Graham: "I took your life and then tried to give it back to you."

The robin flutters in its cage. Sarah Craber stares, her face smeared with dirt, mouth full of soil. Will Graham takes a knife and begins to slice open the horse's abdomen. It's hard work and takes real effort.

Will Graham: "I find its womb, place you inside."

The birdcage is now empty. Sarah Craber is gone, too. Time has passed and Will Graham is now stitching up the wound in the horse's belly.

Will Graham: "I hope that the forces of death and biology will bring you rebirth."

He stands and stares at his handiwork.

INT. HORSE STABLE - DAY

Will Graham holds the open file in his hands. Jack Crawford is standing nearby.

Will Graham: "It's a coffin birth. Decomposition builds up gasses within the putrefied body and pushes the dead fetus out of its mother's corpse. It's really more of a prolapse than a birth."

Jack Crawford: "Not to whoever did this."

Will Graham: "Whoever did this knew the horse. Knew she was dying because her foal was born dead. Knew Sarah Craber. He's familiar with the stables. He knew when he wouldn't get caught. He works here or maybe used to. He has medical knowledge of animals, but isn't a veterinarian. He considers himself a healer."

Jack Crawford: "How is this healing?"

Will Graham: "Sarah Craber was reborn. And a mother and her child are finally on the same side of life. This wasn't murder, Jack. This was grief."

EXT. ANIMAL RESCUE - DAY

A black horse looks over a half door, breath frosting the air. Beyond it, an FBI SUV comes down the track. Two weathered buildings stand in a rustic setting, the animal rescue and, beyond it, a large-animal barn where the black horse looks out over its stall door. The SUV pulls up and stops. Jack Crawford and Will Graham are in the front seat.

INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - DAY

Will Graham and Jack Crawford approach the doors and find them open. They share a look and then Jack Crawford pulls the door aside and they enter. It is dark inside, but full of low noises: scratching, skittering, squeaks and breathing. The room is somehow alive. Jack Crawford knocks on the doorframe. The room explodes with noise. On every wall, floor-to-ceiling metal cages contain small wild animals in different stages of medical care. Raccoons, skunks, squirrels and birds of all kinds. All now going crazy with agitation.

Peter Bernardone: "Scare them when ya' knock like that."

Jack Crawford and Will Graham turn to find Peter Bernardone, a weathered, lean man. Wild-looking himself. A scar on his forehead.

Jack Crawford: "Peter Bernardone?"

He moves past them, his focus on the animals as he lowers drop cloths over the cages, immediately quieting them.

Jack Crawford: "You don't seem curious who we are."

Peter Bernardone: "Who are you?"

Jack Crawford: "Agent Jack Crawford. FBI. This is Will Graham. We'd like to ask you about someone you might have had contact with when you worked at Blackbriar Stables. Sarah Craber. Her body was found recently in very unusual circumstances."

Peter Bernardone: "I heard."

Will Graham: "There was a bird in her chest. Did you hear about that?"

Peter Bernardone: "Is the bird alive?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

A flicker of relief.

Peter Bernardone: "Who's taking care of it?"

Jack Crawford: "How well did you know Sarah Craber?"

Peter Bernardone: "I didn't know her."

Jack Crawford: "Would you mind looking at a photograph for me?"

Peter Bernardone shakes his head, turns and murmurs to his animals.

Peter Bernardone: "I know who she is, I just didn't know her."

Jack Crawford: "Just to be sure."

Reluctantly, Peter Bernardone takes it. Will Graham is watching him closely. Taking a deep breath, Peter Bernardone turns his line of sight away from Jack Crawford. Reaches for the photo. Looks at it closely, then repeats the same pattern. Looks away from Jack Crawford. Then hands him the photo. Under this, Jack Crawford and Will Graham exchange looks.

Will Graham: "Peter, you had a head injury when you worked at the stables."

Peter Bernardone: "I was kicked by a horse."

Jack Crawford looks at Will Graham.

Will Graham: "It's an atypical motor response. Peter's ability to look and touch can only happen as separate events. Aggravated by stress, isn't it?"

Peter Bernardone glances at Will Graham, exposed and somehow understood.

Jack Crawford: "Are you feeling stressed?"

Peter Bernardone: "I'm worried about the bird."

Jack Crawford: "A woman is dead, Mr. Bernardone. And you're worried about a bird."

Peter Bernardone: "I'm sad for her, I'm sad for the horse. But I can't help them. I can help the bird."

He turns away and goes to the cages. Jack Crawford and Will Graham watch.

EXT. ANIMAL RESCUE - DAY

As they walk back to the car:

Will Graham: "He knows the victim. He knows the animals involved."

Jack Crawford: "We'll need a warrant."

Will Graham: "I don't know if he's the killer, Jack. If he is, he never meant to be. If he isn't, he knows who is."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Will Graham sits with Hannibal Lecter. Mid therapy session.

Hannibal Lecter: "You were able to reconstruct his fantasies. One dead creature giving birth to another. The bird, his victim's new beating heart. Her soul given wings."

Will Graham: "Rebirths can only ever be symbolic."

Hannibal Lecter: "You've been reborn."

Will Graham: "Wasn't that the goal of my therapy?"

Hannibal Lecter: "How does it feel consulting again with Jack Crawford and the FBI? Last time it nearly destroyed you."

Will Graham: "Last time you nearly destroyed me."

Hannibal Lecter sighs.

Hannibal Lecter: "After everything that's happened, Will, you still believe--"

Will Graham: "You can stop right there. You may have to pretend, but I don't."

Hannibal Lecter stares at Will Graham, smiles, then:

Hannibal Lecter: "No, you don't. Not with me."

Will Graham: "I don't expect you to admit anything. You can't. But I prefer sins of omission to outright lies, Dr. Lecter. Don't lie to me."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will you return the courtesy? Why have you resumed your therapy?"

Will Graham: "Can't just talk to any psychiatrist about what's kicking round my head."

Hannibal Lecter gauges Will Graham thoughtfully, then asks:

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you fantasize about killing me?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

Hannibal Lecter: "Tell me. How would you do it?"

Will Graham considers that a moment, then:

Will Graham: "With my hands."

Hannibal Lecter: "Then we haven't moved past apologies and forgiveness."

Will Graham: "We've moved past a lot of things. I discovered a truth about myself when I tried to have you killed."

Hannibal Lecter: "That doing bad things to bad people makes you feel good?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

Hannibal Lecter: "I need to know if you're going to try to kill me again, Will."

Will Graham: "I don't want to kill you anymore, Dr. Lecter, not now that I finally find you interesting."

EXT. FIELD - NIGHT

A recently-dug grave is at the center of fifteen other graves. Police vehicles are there. BAU techs move in and out of the frame. Large spotlights turn night into day. Brian Zeller stops his work as he sees Will Graham approaching. A long beat. Then he approaches Will Graham.

Brian Zeller: "I owe you an apology."

Will Graham: "You don't owe me anything."

Brian Zeller: "I thought you were a killer. Didn't want to hear anything else. So wouldn't consider anything else."

Will Graham: "The evidence was compelling."

Brian Zeller: "Didn't stop Beverly questioning it. If she thought we'd listen, maybe she'd have come to us. She didn't."

And there is the pain for all of them. Brian Zeller holds out a hand. Will Graham shakes it. As they part, Jack Crawford is revealed standing behind them, letting them get it done. He looks at Will Graham.

Jack Crawford: "We tracked the soil in Sarah Craber's mouth to this vicinity. Methane probes did the rest. Found her empty grave. Then found fifteen others that aren't so empty."

Will Graham: "If Peter Bernardone knew about Sarah Craber's grave, then he knew about all of them."

Jack Crawford: "Still think he's not a killer?"

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal Lecter is staring forward.

Hannibal Lecter: "Every human being is capable of committing acts of great cruelty."

He is in session with Margot Verger.

Margot Verger: "My family doesn’t see me as the victim. They see me as the passive-aggressor. They were disgusted by what my brother did. Not with him. With me for allowing it to happen."

Hannibal Lecter: "Your brother dehumanized you and your family unfortunately fosters that climate of disrespect."

Margot Verger: "They think I’m weird."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m much weirder than you will ever be, Margot. It’s fine to be weird."

Margot Verger: "They’ve already forgiven him. Talk shows and self-help books thrive on this sort of thing. Everybody loves a sinner redeemed."

Hannibal Lecter watches her, studying her.

Margot Verger: "He’s the prodigal son, set about repairing his ways. He may have made bad choices before. But now he can make new, better choices."

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you believe that?"

Margot Verger: "Do you believe me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "It’s not my role to believe you, Margot; it’s my role to help you understand what you believe."

Frustratingly noncommittal.

Margot Verger: "I believe my brother won't stop."

Hannibal Lecter: "How does that make you feel?"

Margot Verger: "Angry."

Hannibal Lecter: "Anger is an energizing emotion; prompts action against threat. If you’re angry, you’re optimistic you can stop this from happening again."

Margot Verger: "I know how to stop it."

Hannibal Lecter: "Anybody can become angry. According to Aristotle, that’s the easy part. But to be angry with the right person, and to the right degree, and at the right time, and for the right purpose, and in the right way. That’s not easy."

Margot Verger averts her eyes. Hannibal Lecter sits forward.

Hannibal Lecter: "If you really want to kill your brother, Margot. Wait until you can get away with it. Or find someone to do it for you."

INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - DAY

Will Graham is holding a robin in its cage. He sits on one side of an examination table. Peter Bernardone sits on the other side. The bird is between them, acting as a buffer as Will Graham coaxes conversation out of Peter Bernardone.

Will Graham: "Said you're worried about the bird. Thought you might like to see it."

Peter Bernardone: "Isn't this evidence?"

Will Graham: "I'm not FBI. I used to sort of be FBI. But now I'm really not."

Peter Bernardone: "What are you?"

Will Graham: "I'm figuring that out. You might say this is some kind of therapy."

Peter Bernardone: "I've already got a social worker."

Will Graham: "Therapy's not for you, it's for me. The agent I was here with. He's coming back with a warrant. He'll arrest you, impound your animals. And it will break your heart."

Peter Bernardone: "I didn't kill anybody."

Will Graham: "I know you didn't, but that's not always relevant. What did you do, Peter? They found Sarah Craber's grave. How did you find it?"

Peter Bernardone's attention drifts from Will Graham, focusing on the robin.

Peter Bernardone: "Funny how you can develop an individual language with an animal only you can understand. No one else knows, not even other animals. This one's already speaking to me."

Will Graham: "This one's spoken to you before. At some point, almost every culture believed birds carried our souls into the afterlife. They can't all be wrong."

Peter Bernardone: "You think I think this bird is Sarah Craber? She's gone, she's everywhere and nowhere."

Will Graham: "Tell me who killed her."

Peter Bernardone goes still, thoughtful. He regards the bird.

Peter Bernardone: "After something so ugly, I just wanted something beautiful for her."

Will Graham: "You were grieving her. You couldn't save her, but you could bring poetry to her death."

Peter Bernardone: "I wanted you to find me. If you could find me, you could find him."

Will Graham: "Do you have a shadow, Peter? Someone only you can see. He's someone you considered a friend. He made you feel you weren't alone. Until you saw what he really is, and it made you even lonelier."

Peter Bernardone: "No one will believe me. He'll make sure no one will believe me."

Will Graham: "I'll make sure they do."

INT. BAU - INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Alana Bloom is with Clark Ingram, late 30s, neat, smiling. The two-way mirror is at Alana Bloom's back.

Clark Ingram: "Every social worker enjoys some aspects of the job more than others. There are cases that you reach and cases you don't reach."

Alana Bloom: "Your notes on Peter Bernardone's file are drastically different than the ones from his last case worker."

Clark Ingram: "The social services system is far from perfect. It's common to omit certain information on difficult cases to clear a path in the world for those stuck in the weeds."

Alana Bloom: "His sort of traumatic brain injury can make someone more vulnerable to psychological disorders."

Clark Ingram: "Post-concussion syndrome. He's had persistent cognitive problems. Confusion, paranoia, rage. Would have refused his case if I'd known."

Alana Bloom: "You don't seem to feel sorry for your client. A surprising lack of empathy in a social worker."

Clark Ingram: "Peter Bernardone has accused me of murdering sixteen women."

Alana Bloom: "How does that make you feel?"

Clark Ingram: "Right now I'm feeling inconvenienced. I'm being detained on the word of one very damaged individual."

Alana Bloom: "You're not being detained, you're being interviewed. The FBI is just being thorough."

Alana Bloom bends to scribble a note. Clark Ingram's smile falls. When she looks up, he smiles again. Automatic. A mask.

Clark Ingram: "What are you writing down?"

Alana Bloom: "An observation."

Clark Ingram: "About me?"

Alana Bloom smiles at Clark Ingram and seemingly instinctively reaches out to touch Clark Ingram's hand on the tabletop.

Alana Bloom: "I'm sorry. I didn't mean to make you feel uncomfortable."

He pulls his hand away. His face changes, eyes become still and cold. Then he smiles again, forcing charm back through. Will Graham watches intently through the observation mirror. Jack Crawford and Hannibal Lecter are alongside him. Will Graham looks at them.

Will Graham: "Smart. She keeps pushing him on his feelings, not the facts. She's trying to gauge how comfortable he is with emotion, if he has any. He couldn't bear to be touched by her."

Jack Crawford looks at Hannibal Lecter.

Hannibal Lecter: "His responses are typical of many psychopaths during interviews, but could also be resentment."

Will Graham: "His eyes are dead. He's a predator."

In the interrogation room:

Alana Bloom: "Did you know Sarah Craber?"

Clark Ingram: "No. Peter talked about her extensively during my house visits. I'd say he was obsessed with her."

Alana Bloom: "You think Peter Bernardone is capable of murder?"

Clark Ingram: "I'm not a psychiatrist, Dr. Bloom."

Alana Bloom nods, makes another note.

Alana Bloom: "I'm curious, Mr. Ingram. Why did you become a social worker?"

Clark Ingram: "Society needs caring people."

Alana Bloom: "It also needs a few psychopaths to keep the rest of us on our toes."

He leans forward to Alana Bloom, the smile gone now.

Clark Ingram: "There is no evidence I did this."

It's a statement of fact for him, not of innocence.

Clark Ingram: "And if you want to know how I feel, I feel like I don't want to be here anymore. If I'm not being detained, I'd like to be on my way."

Alana Bloom watches him without speaking. Jack Crawford leans forward and presses a button on the console.

Jack Crawford: "Let him go."

Will Graham: "You're making a mistake, Jack."

Jack Crawford: "I've got nothing to hold him on."

Will Graham: "Peter Bernardone is psychologically disadvantaged. He's been manipulated. As his social worker, this man is in a position of trust. He betrayed that trust."

Hannibal Lecter is still watching Alana Bloom and Clark Ingram. Alana Bloom holds the door for him as he exits.

Will Graham: "I know what it's like to point at a killer and have no one listen."

Jack Crawford: "You pointed in the wrong direction."

Hannibal Lecter looks at Jack Crawford, then at Will Graham.

INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - NIGHT

Oddly quiet and still. Dark inside, but the low noises are absent. Peter Bernardone walks inside and senses something is wrong. He turns on a light to find the walls of cages are all empty. Their doors are thrown open. The food and bedding tossed haphazardly about. Peter Bernardone moans deep within himself. He turns and exits.

EXT. ANIMAL RESCUE - NIGHT

Peter Bernardone comes out running and heads for the large-animal barn. He rushes inside.

INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - LARGE-ANIMAL BARN - NIGHT

The horse lies dead on the floor amidst the pens and stalls, bleeding out from a head wound, next to a bloody hammer. Peter Bernardone drops to his knees and strokes the horse's head. A shadow falls across him and he turns to see Clark Ingram standing behind him. Incongruously, Clark Ingram holds the bloodied hammer, a tuft of black horse hair stuck to the blood.

Clark Ingram: "What have you done, Peter? I'm worried about you. You've been expressing a lot of rage recently."

Peter Bernardone stares at him as if he were mad, tears welling.

Clark Ingram: "So often in my line of work, I see people take out their resentments on those closest to them. It's a sad fact of human nature. And your brain injury leaves you prone to extremes of emotion. The way you think is compromised. Peter, you're destroying your life."

Peter Bernardone is realizing how realistic this version of events sounds. He shakes his head. Agitated. Hating the kernel of truth behind these lies.

Clark Ingram: "Sarah was a sad reminder of all the things you'll never have. And that's the very horse who kicked you in the head."

Peter Bernardone looks at the horse.

Peter Bernardone: "She was scared, she didn't mean to."

Clark Ingram: "Some will say this was a long-time coming. I know I will. Already have. Sixteen women, Peter. You killed the first shortly after your accident. You killed them because you weren't worthy of them."

Clark Ingram sounds so plausible. He smiles at Peter Bernardone, suddenly his eyes are so cruel.

Peter Bernardone: "You killed them."

Clark Ingram: "If I had killed them, it's because I decided they were worthy of me."

His cruelty and malice are too much for Peter Bernardone who quietly eyes the hammer in Clark Ingram's hand.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S CAR - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter drives along a dark country road, Will Graham in the passenger seat beside him. Hannibal Lecter looks at Will Graham, his eyes fixed ahead.

Hannibal Lecter: "You look like a man who has suffered an irrevocable loss."

Will Graham: "I'm trying to prevent one."

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you think if you save Peter Bernardone, you can save yourself?"

Will Graham: "Save myself from who, Dr. Lecter?"

Hannibal Lecter: "From who you perceive me to be."

Will Graham: "I'm afraid I need to be saved from who you perceive me to be."

Hannibal Lecter: "Every time you think about it, it stings, doesn't it? Wondering if I could be right about you. Many troublesome behaviors strike when we are uncertain of ourselves. Peter Bernardone lies in the same darkness that holds you."

Will Graham: "I'm alone in that darkness."

Hannibal Lecter: "You're not alone, Will. I'm standing right beside you. Does Peter Bernardone fantasize about killing the way you do?"

Will Graham: "He's not a killer."

Hannibal Lecter: "Given extreme enough circumstances, we can all behave like psychopaths."

EXT. ANIMAL RESCUE - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter's car comes in and Will Graham exits. Will Graham rushes toward the shelter.

INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - NIGHT

Will Graham enters. Scans the room. Realizes the place has been ransacked. Will Graham stares at the devastation. Hannibal Lecter appears behind him. Will Graham draws his gun, turns and rushes back past Hannibal Lecter.

EXT. ANIMAL RESCUE - NIGHT

Will Graham runs across the yard to the large-animal barn.

Will Graham: "Peter?! Peter Bernardone?!"

Will Graham enters the barn.

INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - LARGE-ANIMAL BARN - NIGHT

Peter Bernardone turns and looks at Will Graham. His face is streaked with blood. A cut on his head. He is kneeling before the dead black horse, a pool of blood spreading around him from the terrible wound in its abdomen which he is finishing stitching. The horse's belly is horribly distended. Hannibal Lecter appears at Will Graham's shoulder. Will Graham lowers his gun.

INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - LARGE-ANIMAL BARN - NIGHT

Will Graham and Hannibal Lecter are still looking at Peter Bernardone on the floor by the dead black horse.

Will Graham: "Peter... is your social worker inside that horse?"

Peter Bernardone nods.

Peter Bernardone: "We are hardwired to see human beings everywhere. Every animal. Every life. We're all human."

Hannibal Lecter: "Even God is personified."

Peter Bernardone: "He couldn't see that. He forfeited his humanity. I forfeited mine. I used to have a horrible fear of hurting anything. He helped me get over that. Feels so abnormal."

Hannibal Lecter: "An abnormal reaction to an abnormal situation is normal behavior."

Peter Bernardone: "He deserves to die."

Will Graham is sad for Peter Bernardone.

Will Graham: "But you didn't deserve to kill him. I want you to come with me, Peter."

Peter Bernardone nods, stands and allows Will Graham to lead him from the building and out into the darkness beyond. Hannibal Lecter takes in the scene, the metallic tang of blood thick in the air as he sniffs it. He turns away and considers the night sky. The dead horse is in the background. The flesh on the horse's belly undulates. Guts spill. And then, a bloodied hand forces its way out, grasping for ground.

INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - NIGHT

Peter Bernardone moves sadly through the wreckage, righting things, picking up cages. Like a bereft mourner in the space of a lost loved one. The absence pains him.

Peter Bernardone: "Cowbirds lay their eggs in other birds' nests. Tricks them into raising their chicks. But a robin knows when it's being used."

Will Graham: "Did you know?"

Peter Bernardone: "I didn't want to know. If a robin removes a cowbird's egg from its nest, the cowbird will destroy that nest, eggs and all."

Will Graham: "Out of spite?"

Peter Bernardone: "It's not spite. Spite is uniquely human. We just don't understand why the cowbirds do it."

Will Graham: "What was done to you was cruelty for cruelty's sake."

Peter Bernardone opens empty cages, as if to coax the animals home.

Peter Bernardone: "Some of them will survive on their own. Some of them won't. Some of them will come home. But I won't be here when they do, will I?"

Will Graham: "No."

Peter Bernardone: "I hate him."

Will Graham: "I envy your hate. Makes it much easier when you know how to feel."

Peter Bernardone: "Makes what easier?"

Will Graham: "Killing them."

Peter Bernardone: "I didn't kill him. I wanted him to wake up in death and choke on it."

INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - LARGE-ANIMAL BARN - NIGHT

The camera comes up over the black horse's body to reveal Clark Ingram as he stands, fouled with blood and slime. Hannibal Lecter has his back to Clark Ingram. Smiling as he feeds a handful of meal to a pig in a stall. The focus racks from Clark Ingram's nightmarish slick face to the steel of the hammer still clotted with gore. He bends and picks it up. Hannibal Lecter watches, bemused and impressed.

Hannibal Lecter: "Mr. Ingram."

Clark Ingram stands still, momentarily thrown by this polite greeting.

Hannibal Lecter: "Might want to crawl back in there, if you know what's good for you."

Hannibal Lecter turns his head and Will Graham steps out of darkness, coming into focus as he enters the barn, gun raised before him. Hannibal Lecter steps to one side. Watching, fascinated. Will Graham approaches Clark Ingram. As Will Graham approaches with the gun, Clark Ingram sees murder in his eyes and drops the hammer. It drops into the dirt and falls sideways. Clark Ingram holds out his arms and drops to his knees like a penitent. He smiles up at the advancing Will Graham.

Clark Ingram: "Officer, I'm the victim here."

Will Graham: "I'm not an officer. I'm a friend of Peter's."

His face falls as Will Graham cocks the hammer.

Clark Ingram: "Peter's confused."

Will Graham: "I'm not. Pick up the hammer."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will."

Will Graham: "Pick it up."

Will Graham's finger tightens on the trigger. Clark Ingram's gaze and expression become steely and inscrutable. Hannibal Lecter moves to Will Graham, a devil on his shoulder, whispers:

Hannibal Lecter: "It won't feel the same, Will. It won't feel like killing me."

Will Graham: "It doesn't have to. I know what it will feel like. It'll feel good."

Hannibal Lecter: "You did the best anyone could do for Peter, but don't do this for him. Not for Mr. Ingram's victims or their many friends and relatives who would love to see him dead. If you're going to do this, Will... you have to do it for yourself."

Clark Ingram: "Please don't."

Hannibal Lecter: "You would be wise to remain silent, Mr. Ingram. This is not the reckoning you promised yourself, Will."

Will Graham's finger is so tight. The trigger clicks. The hammer falls on Hannibal Lecter's finger, between the hammer and firing pin. Will Graham looks at Hannibal Lecter as Hannibal Lecter slides his hand around Will Graham's and pulls the gun away. Their faces close together. Hannibal Lecter talks quietly into Will Graham's ear:

Hannibal Lecter: "With all my knowledge and intrusion, I could never entirely predict you. I can feed the caterpillar, whisper through the chrysalis, but what hatches follows its own nature and is beyond me."