INT. HANNIBAL LECTER’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

An extreme close up on a knife blade. It slices down on a cutting board, mincing scallions into miniature onion rings in a succession of rapid chops. All sound is dulled. What can be heard is the rhythmic breathing and heartbeat of the knife-wielder against the organic hum of his circulatory system.

Time suddenly slows and the rapid chops become dreamlike and methodical. Jack Crawford's reflection is visible in the blade of the knife. Time abruptly returns to normal and the knife continues its rapid chop-chop-chop-chop-chop fire. And then it stops. The knife-wielder scoots the diced scallions into a ceramic dish with the blade, then places the knife across the bowl’s mouth. Hannibal Lecter is revealed in the reflection of the blade.

The light reflecting off of his kitchen knife dances briefly across his face. Hannibal Lecter stands across the island from Jack Crawford, who studies him intently. Jack Crawford’s mouth is moving, but we only hear Hannibal Lecter’s rhythmic breathing and heartbeat against the backdrop of his humming circulatory system.

Hannibal Lecter takes a breath and exhales, and sound returns to normal. A dawning concern is washing over Jack Crawford. Then something subtle changes in Hannibal Lecter’s eyes, almost immeasurable. But Jack Crawford measures it. We hear his rhythmic breathing and heartbeat, which beats steadily, but eerily does not accelerate. Jack Crawford’s hand drifts toward his coat, brushing his thumb across the fasten of his sidearm holster. Time suddenly slows as Hannibal Lecter throws his kitchen knife at Jack Crawford.

Jack Crawford dives out of the way as he draws his gun from his holster. Hannibal Lecter’s knife moves through Jack Crawford’s hand at the wrist, his gun clatters to the floor.

Hannibal Lecter vaults over the kitchen counter as Jack Crawford pulls the knife out of his wrist, swinging it immediately. The blade whisks through the air, narrowly missing Hannibal Lecter. He yanks another knife from the cutting board and swings it in a deadly arc. Jack Crawford jackknifes his torso to avoid the blade, slashing back at Hannibal Lecter with quick swipes.

Hannibal Lecter deflects Jack Crawford’s knife with his own and they dodge, parry and block each other’s blades. Jack Crawford thrusts and slices into Hannibal Lecter’s waist, who twists around the knife, knocking it from Jack Crawford’s grip. Hannibal Lecter lunges his knife at Jack Crawford’s belly, meaning to gut him. Jack Crawford blocks the knife with a cutting board and then smashes the cutting board into the side of Hannibal Lecter’s head, knocking him off balance, but not quite down.

He grabs Hannibal Lecter and bodily swings him crashing into the cupboards. Hannibal Lecter throws his weight back at Jack Crawford, driving him across the kitchen, but not far. Jack Crawford is solid. Jack Crawford maneuvers his arms around Hannibal Lecter’s throat and begins to squeeze a chokehold. Hannibal Lecter writhes and kicks, trying to throw Jack Crawford off balance, but to no avail. His eyelids flutter and pinch as he tries to focus and remain conscious. His body goes limp and he slumps in Jack Crawford’s arms, just enough for his shoulder to drop and allow his hand to reach a shard of glass on the floor.

Hannibal Lecter plunges the shard of glass into Jack Crawford’s neck. He recoils and stumbles back, clutching his neck. Hannibal Lecter acts quickly, picking up a butcher knife and turning on Jack Crawford. Still clutching his neck, Jack Crawford stumbles back into the pantry. He falls inside, kicking the door closed on the advancing Hannibal Lecter. SLAM. SLAM. SLAM. Hannibal Lecter throws his shoulder into the pantry door, Jack Crawford’s foot braced against it. Jack Crawford holds his neck wound with one hand as he fumbles for his phone with the other. SLAM. SLAM. SLAM. The door splinters.

TWELVE WEEKS EARLIER

A sea urchin. Its flesh is gently pulled out of the shell. A beautiful piece of pink meat is thinly-but-generously sliced and arranged on the clean bones of a fish and adorned with a sauce. On a tastefully-ornate Japanese serving tray, the sashimi plate joins plates of water clams and squid, beautifully arranged and garnished with leaves and flowers.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER’S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter enters carrying two tastefully-ornate Japanese serving trays displaying their arrangements of food.

Hannibal Lecter: "This course is called mukozuke. Seasonal sashimi. Sea urchin, water clams and squid."

Hannibal Lecter places Jack Crawford’s dish in front of him.

Jack Crawford: "Beautiful."

Hannibal Lecter: "Kaiseki. A Japanese art form that honors the taste and aesthetic of what we eat."

Jack Crawford: "I feel guilty eating it."

Hannibal Lecter: "I never feel guilty eating anything."

Jack Crawford tastes the sashimi, savoring it.

Jack Crawford: "Can’t quite place the fish."

Hannibal Lecter: "He was a flounder. I last prepared this meal for my Aunt Murasaki under similarly-unfortunate circumstances."

Jack Crawford: "What circumstances were those?"

Hannibal Lecter: "A loss. This is a loss. Will is a loss. We’re mourning a death."

Jack Crawford: "Will’s 'death' is on me."

Hannibal Lecter: "It’s on both of us."

Jack Crawford: "It’s the last thing I think about going to sleep and the first thing I think about when I wake up. Will’s gonna be convicted of five murders. I’ll be convicted of one."

Hannibal Lecter: "You’re not on trial."

Jack Crawford: "I will be. In the halls of the FBI. So will you. According to Will Graham, this was all you."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will was your bloodhound. You can’t ignore where he points."

Jack Crawford: "I’m not ignoring it."

The words hang in the air a moment.

Hannibal Lecter: "You have to investigate me. It’s in my best interest, and yours."

Jack Crawford: "I’m also not ignoring the fact that my bloodhound went mad before pointing your direction."

Hannibal Lecter: "We can’t define Will only by his maddest edges."

Jack Crawford: "We can’t define Will at all."

EXT. RIVER - DAY

On the pebbled banks, tall mature pines give way to a snow-capped mountain range in the distance. Yet we don’t hear a sound except for a steady rhythmic breathing and heartbeat amplified by the skull arena.

As we navigate the river, a lone fly fisherman wearing waders appears up ahead. Thigh deep in the water, we soon realize the angler is Will Graham. A peaceful expression on his face, Will Graham gracefully casts his fly into the water and waits for a fish to bite. His rhythmic breathing and heartbeat are the only sounds we hear. He couldn't be happier. He's a long way from the jail cell where we last saw him.

INT. BSHCI - THERAPY HALL - DAY

The quality and direction of light has changed. In slightly slower motion, Will Graham sits shackled inside one of six cage-like cells lined up in a semicircle facing Dr. Frederick Chilton, who speaks without sound as Will Graham stares into middle distance, ignoring him. Will Graham’s breathing and heartbeat are all we hear.

EXT. RIVER - DAY

Will Graham casts a new line and waits. On the bank of the river, the black stag slowly approaches. Will Graham stops, remaining still as to not spook the beast. The black stag suddenly startles and bolts. But before Will Graham can question what set it off, a tug on his line reveals he's caught something.

Will Graham works to reel in his catch, but whatever lurks beneath the dark waters is big. And strong. Then... a broad, black pair of antlers pierces the water's surface and pushes into the air. The skeletal man stag rises from the water.

INT. BSHCI - THERAPY HALL - DAY

Will Graham startles out of the virtual reality of his mind that suddenly turned against him.

Will Graham: "What did you say?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I said, how does that make you feel?"

Will Graham focuses and finally turns to look at Dr. Frederick Chilton.

Will Graham: "Makes me feel like I’m sitting in a dunking tank and you’re lobbing softballs, hoping to make a splash, but you keep missing the target."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Fortunately, I have time for a few more lobs. You’re in my hospital. You’re my patient now, Will."

Will Graham: "I’m not talking to you, Frederick. I want to talk to Dr. Lecter."

INT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal Lecter walks up the sidewalk, his shadow sliding up into frame as he approaches the front door and knocks. A moment, then Dr. Bedelia Du Maurier answers the door, bathed in Hannibal Lecter's shadow.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Hello."

Bedelia Du Maurier sits across from Hannibal Lecter.

Hannibal Lecter: "Will Graham has asked to see me."

She says nothing. Watches. Listens.

Hannibal Lecter: "I would like to see him. I continue to be curious about the way he thinks despite all that's happened."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "He's still influencing you. Will Graham asking to see you betrays his clear intent to manipulate you."

Hannibal Lecter: "And if I agree to see Will?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "It betrays your clear intent to manipulate him."

Hannibal Lecter: "I miss him."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Is it possible you're confusing your needs with those of your patient's?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Will was never just a patient."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "He's changing your behavior and you're hoping you can change his."

Hannibal Lecter: "I only wanted to help Will."

She studies him a moment.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "The way we think is flawed, but the flaws are systematic. Even when irrational, we are predictable. You're obsessed with Will Graham."

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm intrigued."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Obsessively. He's going to take advantage of that. He already has. He nearly cost you your reputation."

Hannibal Lecter: "My reputation is intact."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "For the time being."

Those words hang in the air.

Hannibal Lecter: "Will is my friend."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Why? Why is he your friend?"

Hannibal Lecter: "He sees his own mentality as grotesque but useful, like a chair of antlers. He can't anticipate his thoughts. He can't block them. He can't repress who he is. There's an honesty in that I admire."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I imagine there's an honesty in that you can relate to. What can't you repress, Hannibal?"

Hannibal Lecter holds her gaze. Finally, the glimmer of a smile turns the corners of his mouth almost imperceptibly.

A fine powder. A boiling froth. A needle plunger pulls fluid. A vein is tapped twice. A needle penetrates flesh. A needle plunger pushes fluid. A man's anguished eye, tear-stained desperation gives way to surrender as the pupil dilates. A man's face stares into middle distance as a spray of resin coats his face with an even application of sealant. The layer of resin slowly hardens over the surface of the eye and its lid, sealing the victim's gaze behind it.

INT. FBI - CORRIDOR - DAY

Jack Crawford stands in front of the FBI seal.

A female voice calls out: "Agent Crawford. We're ready for you."

His face is set as he listens.

Female voice: "According to Dr. Bloom, you were warned against putting someone with Will Graham’s issues into the field."

Alana Bloom, stern, is next to Jack Crawford.

Jack Crawford: "That is correct."

INT. FBI - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Kade Prurnell, 40s, smooth and politic, a career bureaucrat, sits opposite Alana Bloom and Jack Crawford.

Kade Prurnell: "Were you aware that Dr. Bloom was going to file this report?"

Jack Crawford: "Yes. She told me she was going to."

Kade Prurnell: "Did you advise her against it?"

Jack Crawford: "I told her to do what she felt she had to do. Evidently, she felt she had to file the report."

Kade Prurnell: "These are allegations of misconduct. Damning stuff, Jack."

Alana Bloom: "I never stated anywhere that this was misconduct. In my opinion, it was a lapse in judgment."

Kade Prurnell: "A lapse in judgment is misconduct."

That hangs in the air a moment.

Kade Prurnell: "There'll be an internal investigation."

Alana Bloom: "There should be."

Kade Prurnell: "A federal examiner is someone who arrives at the battlefield after a battle and bayonets the wounded. You wounded Agent Crawford. Who do you think gets the bayonet next?"

Alana Bloom has no response.

Kade Prurnell: "There is a general desire to see this go away quickly and quietly."

She fixes Alana Bloom with an intimidating stare.

Kade Prurnell: "Dr. Bloom, with that in mind, I would appreciate it greatly if you were to recant your report."

She feels the institutional pressure to step back into line.

Alana Bloom: "No."

Wrong answer.

Alana Bloom: "Will Graham's life has been destroyed. How that happened has to be a matter of record. I'm sorry, Jack."

Jack Crawford turns to Kade Prurnell.

Jack Crawford: "Dr. Bloom is not easily swayed."

Kade Prurnell looks at them both. Sighs.

Kade Prurnell: "This is going to get ugly."

Jack Crawford: "It already has."

EXT. BALTIMORE STATE HOSPITAL FOR THE CRIMINALLY INSANE - DAY

The building is established.

INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM’S CELL - DAY

Will Graham sits upright, staring into middle distance. He listens as a cell block klaxon sounds and the gate door opens briefly, then closes with a resounding lock. A visitor approaches down the long corridor with a click in his heel. Will Graham looks to the bars of his cell, then closes his eyes.

Through the bars, the click of the visitor's heel transforms into a hollower, heavier hoof clop. The shadow of antlers crawls eerily across the floor, the harbinger of something terrible. Finally, one black hoof steps into frame. Will Graham's eyes remain closed.

Hannibal Lecter's voice: "Hello, Will."

Will Graham opens his eyes, sees Hannibal Lecter standing outside his cell.

Will Graham: "Dr. Lecter."

Hannibal Lecter: "Lost in thought?"

Will Graham: "Not lost. Not anymore. I used to hear my thoughts inside my skull with the same tone, timbre and accent as if the words were coming out of my mouth."

Hannibal Lecter: "And now?"

Will Graham: "Now my inner voice sounds like you. I can't get you out of my head."

Hannibal Lecter: "Friendship can sometimes involve a breach of individual separateness."

Will Graham: "A blurring of self and friend?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Yes."

Will Graham: "You're not my friend. The light from friendship won't reach us for a million years. That's how far away from friendship we are."

Hannibal Lecter: "I imagine it's easier to believe I am responsible for those murders than it is to accept that you are."

Will Graham: "Sure is."

Hannibal Lecter: "Your inner voice can provide a method of taking control of your behavior. Accepting responsibility for what you've done. Giving those thoughts words encourages clarity."

Will Graham: "I have clarity. About you."

Hannibal Lecter blinks, adjusts his tack.

Hannibal Lecter: "Our conversations, Will, were only ever about you opening your eyes to the truth of who you are."

Will Graham steps closer to the bars, closing the distance between them. Only inches now, but separated by the barrier.

Will Graham: "What you did to me is in my head and I’ll find it. I’m going to remember, Dr. Lecter, and when I do, there will be a reckoning."

Hannibal Lecter smiles at this, nods. Proud.

Hannibal Lecter: "I've got huge faith in you, Will. I always have..."

EXT. FIELD/WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY

Alana Bloom is running Will Graham's pack of dogs, watching them chase each other through the grass. The field is next to Will Graham's farmhouse.

Will Graham's voice: "How are the dogs?"

Alana Bloom's voice: "Good."

Alana Bloom walks to Will Graham's front porch, where Winston lies curled up at the base of the door.

Alana Bloom's voice: "Winston keeps running away, but the others are adjusting."

Alana Bloom sits on the steps, puts a comforting hand on Winston.

Will Graham's voice: "Where does Winston go?"

Alana Bloom's voice: "Home."

She fastens three dogs' harnesses to their corresponding belts in the backseat of her Prius. The three in the back hatch are already harnessed and belted. Alana Bloom shuts the hatch of her trunk and turns back to Winston on the porch.

Alana Bloom: "Come on."

Winston reluctantly crawls into the passenger seat and Alana Bloom fastens his harness to the belt and latches it.

Alana Bloom: "Watch your tail."

She moves Winston's tail out of the way and shuts the door.

INT. BSHCI - STAIRWAY - DAY

Alana Bloom descends the staircase, walking past an armed nurses' station with two nurses and a guard.

Will Graham's voice: "He's not going to find me there."

Alana Bloom's voice: "Not today. But maybe one day. He might. I hope that he might."

Alana Bloom approaches the bars that separate her from the main cell block, glancing over at the Nurse with a polite smile. The Nurse nods and the gate klaxon sounds as it rolls open.

Alana Bloom's voice: "With the right defense."

As Alana Bloom steps through into...

INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM'S CELL - DAY

Alana Bloom sits on a folding chair opposite Will Graham, outside his cage.

Will Graham: "I don't currently have legal representation."

Alana Bloom: "You keep firing your lawyers."

Will Graham: "They're the FBI's lawyers."

Alana Bloom: "Then I'll find you a lawyer who's not affiliated with the FBI."

Will Graham: "What defense do you think I have?"

Alana Bloom: "Automatism. Allows a defendant to argue they shouldn't be held criminally liable for their actions due to unconsciousness."

Will Graham: "Unconsciousness?"

Alana Bloom: "Neurological dysfunctions like encephalitis can be considered an acceptable excusing condition."

Will Graham: "Presuming I did it."

Alana Bloom: "Your mind was on fire. You didn't have any control of what you were doing, much less remember doing it."

Will Graham: "What if I could remember? What if I remember how this was done to me?"

Alana Bloom: "What if you remember how you did it?"

INT. BSHCI - DR. CHILTON’S OFFICE - DAY

Dr. Frederick Chilton is wearing headphones as he listens to this conversation on his laptop via a concealed microphone. A red light on the screen indicates he is recording. A pleased-with-himself smile is on his lips.

Will Graham's voice: "You believe Hannibal."

INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM'S CELL - DAY

Alana Bloom: "I believe the Will Graham sitting across from me now is incapable of that violence. I believe you lost your mind and, for periods of time, you weren't the Will Graham I know."

Will Graham: "I hear Hannibal's voice in the well of my mind. I hear him saying words he's never said to me. It isn't my imagination. It's something else. Have you ever helped a patient recover memories?"

INT. BSHCI - PRIVACY ROOM - DAY

A slowly swinging metronome emits a regular pulse of light. This is Will's point of view. The camera slides across a scarred metal surface to find Will Graham, hands in cuffs, shackled to a bar in the table. Alana Bloom speaks as the metronome moves back and forth. Her voice is slow, soft and reassuring. Will Graham does as she commands.

Alana Bloom: "Close your eyes."

We hear Will Graham’s heartbeat slowing down. Gradually his heartbeat matches rhythm with the metronome.

Alana Bloom: "Feel the heaviness in your limbs..."

Will Graham's eyes are closed. In the darkness, the metronome pulses, briefly illuminating Alana Bloom before plunging her into shadow once more. Alana Bloom appears to be coated with a tarry black shadow, her features barely distinguishable as she speaks.

Shadow Alana: "Imagine yourself in a safe and relaxing place... safe and secure here, safe to relax completely..."

Will Graham watches as Shadow Alana moves closer, seductively.

Shadow Alana: "No matter how deeply you go..."

Shadow Alana leans in for a kiss, lips parting. The tar of Shadow Alana washes over Will Graham in a kiss.

Shadow Alana's voice: "...my voice will go with you."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Will Graham’s eyes open. He sits at the end of the table covered with an elaborate feast, meats and fruits overflowing from their dishes. The reflective light of the metronome washes over him.

Alana Bloom's voice: "Now that we're in a safe place... listen. Can you tell me what you hear?"

Across the table from Will Graham are large black antlers. The Wendigo man stag sits at the head of the table.

Hannibal Lecter's voice (distorted, dreamlike): "See? See?"

Will Graham glances down and sees an ear, bloodied and torn, lying in front of him on his plate. He opens his eyes abruptly, breaking the hypnosis.

INT. BSHCI - PRIVACY ROOM - DAY

Alana Bloom turns off the metronome and its pulsing light fades. Will Graham is visibly shaken from the haunting images in his head.

Will Graham: "This isn't working."

Alana Bloom: "What did you see?"

He doesn't respond. She reaches across the table and wraps his manacled hands in her own, holding Will Graham's gaze.

Alana Bloom: "Will. What did you see?"

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER’S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter looms out of darkness, coming toward us, toward something. He flourishes a plate of food. He places the plate in front of Dr. Frederick Chilton and moves to his own seat. As he sits:

Hannibal Lecter: "Salted and ash-baked celeriac with foraged sea astra. Frederick, you have tested me. It is rare that I cook a meatless meal."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I lost a kidney. I have to watch my protein intake."

Hannibal Lecter: "You didn't lose it, Frederick. It was taken from you. I remain impressed with your recovery."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "One can grow to love beets. Alana Bloom was visiting your former patient today."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will was never my patient."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "The irony's that Mr. Graham is my patient, and he refuses to speak to me. Makes me feel like I'm fumbling with his head like a freshman pulling at a panty girdle."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will is going to be challenging for any psychiatrist."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "He is so lucid, so perceptive, he's trained in criminal psychology and he's a mass murderer. He's a prized patient. Or should be."

Hannibal Lecter: "You thought you'd be like Beaumont studying digestion through the opening in St. Martin's stomach."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "As it turns out, I don't think we're any closer to understanding him now than the day he came in."

Hannibal Lecter takes a nearly-imperceptible pleasure at that.

Hannibal Lecter: "How was Dr. Bloom's visit?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "He asked her to hypnotize him to recover memories. This is delicious."

This piques Hannibal Lecter’s interest.

Hannibal Lecter: "Was he successful?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Only in playing Dr. Bloom. It's sad to see a brilliant psychiatrist fall for such hoary old chestnuts."

Hannibal Lecter: "She wants to believe him. I do, too."

Dr. Frederick Chilton looks disappointed at that, plows on.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "You do realize that you're his favorite topic of conversation. Not with me, of course, but with anyone else who'll listen."

Dr. Frederick Chilton is digging and teasing here. Enjoying himself.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "He tells everyone you're a monster."

Hannibal Lecter: "If you believe Will Graham, then you're dining with a psychopath."

Hannibal Lecter smiles. Dr. Frederick Chilton follows suit. Raises his glass.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Wouldn't be the first time."

He tips his glass to Hannibal Lecter and then drinks as Hannibal Lecter watches over the rim of his own drink.

EXT. RIVER - DAY

A low, man-made dam has been overrun by logs and trees, likely from a compromised beaver-made dam. The closed sluice gates used to fill it from a nearby river have been breached. The pit on the other side has three feet of dirty water in it.

Two parks and rec laborers approach the dam in a small boat. They climb out of the boat, onto the dam and look down into the pit and see the stagnant water in it.

Parks & Rec One: "Somebody's blasting beaver dams."

Parks & Rec Two: "Ah, man..."

Parks & Rec One sloshes down the slope of wooden debris in chest waders and thick rubber gloves, carrying a wooden pole.

Parks & Rec One: "This smells real bad."

Parks & Rec Two enjoys his discomfort with a dry stare.

Parks & Rec Two: "Probably dead beavers."

The waders slide through the water. Parks & Rec One keeps inching forward, feet sticking now.

Parks & Rec One: "Aw, god. I stepped in something."

Parks & Rec Two: "Probably a dead beaver."

Parks & Rec One tries to move and nearly loses his balance.

Parks & Rec One: "It's stuck to the bottom. Something pretty big."

He digs in with the wooden pole and stirs. The water sucks and gurgles, and then a swollen, bloated corpse rolls to the surface, skin sloughed away, dark with decomposition, eyeless from the attentions of insects. Horrific. Parks & Rec One drops the wooden pole. He fights for balance, but loses—the corpse bobs and falls toward him. He tries to push it away, but soft, soggy flesh comes away in his hands and they go under.

Parks & Rec Two: "Buck!"

INT. BAU - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - DAY

Time-lapse establishing shot of the FBI Academy. A tall figure in an evidence suit is revealed to be Beverly Katz as she removes a DNA swab from the figure's mouth.

Hannibal Lecter: "I am amazed what falls off the best of us when moving through a room."

Beverly Katz: "Lessons learned from cellular decay: Enjoy the world while you have it and give a little bit back."

Hannibal Lecter: "When possible, I try to leave an indelible mark wherever I go."

Beverly Katz: "Hopefully not with your DNA."

Hannibal Lecter: "How long will you have my suits?"

A pile of garment bags is visible, and beyond it, an agent in the hair and fiber room runs a static comb over the fine tailoring of one of Hannibal Lecter's suit jackets.

Beverly Katz: "You might have to think about supplementing your wardrobe."

Hannibal Lecter: "I frequently do."

Beverly Katz smiles; she tries to be of some comfort.

Beverly Katz: "You know this is all a formality. Nobody expects to find anything."

Hannibal Lecter: "I know."

Beverly Katz: "Except for maybe Will Graham."

Hannibal Lecter: "He'll have to be disappointed. The beauty of what you do, Ms. Katz, is in its certainty. It'll be your evidence that convicts Will."

An almost-imperceptible wince from Beverly Katz.

Beverly Katz: "I found enough of it. No need to infer or intuit or trust."

Hannibal Lecter: "So much simpler than psychiatry. You can't trust the human mind, but the brain is an imagination machine. We only see part of the world and it manufactures the rest."

Beverly Katz: "Will has done some manufacturing."

Hannibal Lecter sighs, feigning sadness at Will Graham's predicament.

Hannibal Lecter: "Will is doing his best to understand where he is and why."

Beverly Katz: "You were supposed to protect him."

Hannibal Lecter: "From himself?"

Beverly Katz: "Yeah. I'm not mad at you. Not any more than I'm mad at myself. We all missed it. Whatever it was. Is."

Hannibal Lecter: "We all are not suspects."

Beverly Katz: "You're not a suspect. You're the new Will Graham."

EXT. RIVER - DAY

Now a crime scene. Hannibal Lecter follows Beverly Katz through a field of grass. Jack Crawford stands, looking down into the dam pit where Brian Zeller and Jimmy Price are in haz-chem waders and gear, down in the water. A small hoist is carefully raising a badly-decomposed corpse from the water as they oversee. Technicians address three more bodies, one with a deep footprint in its abdomen.

Jack Crawford: "Thank you for coming, Dr. Lecter. I was hoping you could help me with a psychological profile."

As Hannibal Lecter nods, he allows Beverly Katz and Jack Crawford to see him feign a slight unease at the bodies, averting his eyes for effect.

Brian Zeller: "We're standing in people soup."

Jimmy Price: "We're spoons. And it's gazpacho."

Brian Zeller: "What?"

Jimmy Price: "It’s cold. So it’s gazpacho."

Brian Zeller: "I thought that was vichyssoise."

Jack Crawford: "This is number four. At least one more down there."

Hannibal Lecter: "How long have they been here?"

Jack Crawford: "Hard to say. Somebody went to a lot of trouble to preserve them. Been coated with some kind of resin."

Beverly Katz: "Big guy was partially sealed. Rotting from the inside out. Other three look like they were embalmed."

Jack Crawford: "Whatever he's doing, he's still figuring out how to do it."

Hannibal Lecter approaches the bodies and studies their shape.

Hannibal Lecter: "Were they injected with silicone?"

Beverly Katz: "They were injected with something."

Jack Crawford turns to Hannibal Lecter, curious what he'll say next.

Hannibal Lecter: "A technique for making resin-coated models out of fish. Helps the body retain a lively shape in death. He's making human models."

Jack Crawford: "Make models out of things you keep. These were tossed in the river."

Hannibal Lecter: "Then they were imperfect."

INT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - DAY

A very fine ink pen touches paper and ink pools in thin blue lines creating Hannibal Lecter's signature. He sits with Bedelia Du Maurier, handing her the legal document he just signed. She casually glances it over.

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm giving you informed consent to discuss me as your patient."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "With who?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Jack Crawford."

She stares and considers.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Disclosure of patient information should always be limited to the requirements of the situation. What's the situation, Hannibal?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Will Graham made accusations. Jack's only being thorough."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You're keeping Agent Crawford close."

Hannibal Lecter: "We share an obsession."

Bedelia Du Maurier doesn't move her eyes, waiting for him to continue.

Hannibal Lecter: "I got to be Will Graham today. I consulted at an FBI crime scene. I stood in Will's shoes. I looked through his eyes. And I saw death how I imagined he would see it."

Her eyes narrow.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "What are you up to?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm being as open and honest as I know how. As a reasonable person."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "As a reasonable person, why are you inviting the FBI's scrutiny?"

Hannibal Lecter: "It would seem Jack Crawford is less suspicious of me than you are."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Agent Crawford doesn't know what you're capable of."

Hannibal Lecter: "Neither do you."

That gives her a momentary pause.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Clearly there are areas of your therapy that I won't be discussing with the FBI or anyone else."

Hannibal Lecter: "Yes, I know."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You maintain an air of transparency while putting me in the position to lie for you. Again."

Hannibal Lecter: "You're not just lying for me."

He says it so casually as to not betray a threat, but Bedelia Du Maurier sees through the veneer.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "How far is this going to go? Your flirtation with the FBI?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm curious about that myself."

INT. SUBWAY TRAIN - DAY

A sudden piercing shriek of metal on metal as a subway train screams out of a tunnel. It's packed with stressed end-of-day commuters. Roland Umber, a lean, young black man, does the thousand-yard stare as he grips the handrail. A figure slides beside him. We only see him from the back. Roland breathes, eyes ahead. And then a hand slides across his forearm where he grips the rail. A whispering, lingering touch. He jerks his head toward the figure, freaked out. Still we do not see the figure's face, but he speaks.

Killer: "You have nice skin..."

INT. BAU - MORGUE - DAY

Brian Zeller taps his pen on the hard shell of a corpse. Two bodies lie on drawers and four bodies are on tables. Zeller, Jimmy Price and Beverly Katz are with Jack Crawford.

Brian Zeller: "Dental and medical records placed the six. All adults, men and women, different ages, different ethnicities, from different states. Nothing in common except they lived alone and disappeared from their homes with their vehicles."

Jimmy Price: "And they all had large amounts of heroin in their systems."

Jack Crawford: "Enough to be the cause of death?"

Jimmy Price: "And then some."

Jack Crawford studies the non-bloated bodies.

Jack Crawford: "There's unusual skin discoloration in these bodies."

Beverly Katz: "We found traces of BHT, which is a color preservative."

Jack Crawford: "He wants them to look alive."

Brian Zeller: "He shoots them up with a little china white, injects preservatives. Fills their bodies with silicone so they don't emaciate, then seals them in a hard resin shell."

Jimmy Price: "Maybe he's making mannequins out of real people. Like in that Tanya Roberts movie from the '70s."

Jack Crawford moves on to the laceration patterns on the corpses.

Jack Crawford: "What are these punctures?"

Brian Zeller: "Eyelets. Something was threaded through. Bodies were likely strung up. Mounted or presented."

Jack Crawford: "How is he choosing them?"

Beverly Katz: "We've got nothing. Appears random. But if this is the discard pile, I'm curious how many were keepers."

Jack Crawford: "I want a list of any missing persons who disappeared with their vehicles in the surrounding states."

INT. BSHCI - THERAPY HALL - DAY

Will Graham sits in his cage. The clicking of heels on stairs signals the arrival of Kade Prurnell, who is escorted in by a security guard who waits for her on top of the landing.

Kade Prurnell: "Will Graham."

Will Graham looks up, curious.

Kade Prurnell: "Kade Prurnell. Office of the Inspector General. FBI oversight."

Will Graham: "Am I still an FBI employee? Or that pending the outcome of my trial."

Kade Prurnell: "Point of the trial isn't so much whether or not you did it, it's whether or not you knew you were doing it... when you did it."

Will Graham: "Sounds like I'm unemployed."

Kade Prurnell: "Dr. Bloom is hard at work on your unconsciousness defense."

Will Graham: "The FBI made me do it."

Kade Prurnell: "The FBI made you a murderer, yes. That is Dr. Bloom's position. As you can imagine, she's not popular."

Will Graham: "What's your position?"

Kade Prurnell: "Our point of view is, you were already a murderer."

Kade Prurnell studies Will Graham.

Kade Prurnell: "The prosecution is going to paint you as an intelligent psychopath. You conspired with your neurologist to cultivate an illness that would ultimately become your alibi."

Will Graham: "And then I killed my neurologist to broom the footprints behind me."

Kade Prurnell: "Which is what everyone is going to hear when you take the witness stand, regardless of what you say."

Will Graham: "What's to be done about that?"

Kade Prurnell: "Let's discuss it. If you plead guilty, you will spare us all a trial and I will see to it personally you're comfortable here."

Will Graham: "I'm pleading innocent."

Kade Prurnell doesn't hide her disappointment.

Kade Prurnell: "You very publicly lost your mind. Some would argue, theatrically. The prosecution certainly will."

Will Graham: "All part of the performance. Just not my performance you're watching."

Kade Prurnell: "You're going to be found guilty and you'll be given the federal death penalty. That is the inevitable conclusion we are rocketing toward. I'm trying to save your life."

Will Graham: "I'll have to save my own life."

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY

Jack Crawford's sedan pulls into the driveway and stops.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY

Jack Crawford walks inside and through the odd emptiness of the place. The evening sun shines through the curtains, capturing the dust hanging in the air. A sense of abandonment amidst the residue of an investigation. Jack Crawford stands in the room, trying to get a sense, a scent. Like a bereaved man standing in the space a loved one once occupied.

A low growl builds behind Jack Crawford and he turns to the door to be greeted by sudden loud barking. Winston stands in the open doorway. Hackles raised. Jack Crawford looks at the dog as if he were looking at Will Graham, sad. Winston takes a step closer to Jack Crawford who raises a hand.

Jack Crawford: "Winston. Sit."

Winston's growling subsides and he does as instructed.

Jack Crawford: "I suppose you blame me, too."

Alana Bloom climbs the porch stairs of Will Graham's house. She enters to find Jack Crawford sitting against the wall, Winston's head in his lap, nuzzling his hand.

Alana Bloom: "Hello, Jack."

Jack Crawford: "You need to take better care of this dog."

Alana Bloom: "I feel horrible. I got all the dogs chipped. Least they're not running away to anywhere I can't find them."

Jack Crawford: "He's looking for Will."

Alana Bloom: "Isn't that why you're here?"

Jack Crawford acknowledges that with a small nod.

Jack Crawford: "I understand why you felt you had to file that report. You questioned my judgment when my judgment needed to be questioned."

Alana Bloom: "Yes, it did."

Jack Crawford appreciates her bluntness.

Jack Crawford: "It's going to help Will's defense if it's on record."

Alana Bloom: "Yes, it will."

Jack Crawford now clearly understands that Alana Bloom threw him under the bus in a desperate attempt to save Will Graham.

Jack Crawford: "How is his defense coming along?"

Alana Bloom: "Declaring Hannibal's guilt is more important to Will than establishing his own defense."

Jack Crawford: "Hannibal's not guilty."

Alana Bloom: "Neither is Will. He's clinging to the hope Hannibal did this so he doesn't have to face what he did."

Jack Crawford: "I envy your certainty about him."

Alana Bloom: "You used to be certain."

Jack Crawford: "Convince me he didn't know what he was doing. I want to be convinced."

Alana Bloom: "A psychopath wouldn't be so scared of the truth, Jack. And Will's terrified, but that's not stopping him from trying to find it."

Jack Crawford: "Somebody needs to find the truth."

Alana Bloom: "We are who we are in the now, and we are the sum of our memories. If Will doesn't remember what he did, he'll never accept the truth."

INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM’S CELL - DAY

Will Graham sits at his table, looking at a compartmented tray of food. He pulls back the cellophane and regards the unappetizing meal. Mashed potatoes, gray vegetables and overdone meat that he struggles to cut with a plastic knife. He puts it to his mouth and chews.

A memory flashes.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Will Graham sits in a chair at the table, head held back, eyes rolling as a metal tube is forced between his teeth. A plastic-sheathed arm holds his head and throat in an embrace. Hannibal Lecter’s face comes into close focus and he puts something down the tube. Hannibal Lecter pushes the food down with the handle of a wooden spoon. Hannibal Lecter removes the tube and pushes Will Graham’s mouth and nose closed with one hand, as his embrace stays ever tight with the other. Will Graham’s face goes red, and then his throat works convulsively and he swallows. Hannibal Lecter releases his nose and mouth and Will Graham gasps for air. Hannibal Lecter’s hand reaches for a loaded needle on the table, an empty one already lies beside it.

INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM’S CELL - DAY

Will Graham coughs up the chewed meat back into the tray. His eyes go wide at the recovered memory.

INT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - DAY

Bedelia Du Maurier leads Jack Crawford inside, indicating a chair.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Please."

Jack Crawford takes the seat and she sits opposite him.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "How to best provide a psychological profile of Hannibal Lecter."

Jack Crawford: "You're not performing an evaluation for legal purposes or serving as an expert witness, we're just talking."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Let's talk. Certain personality types prefer to interact with the world differently than others."

Jack Crawford: "What's Hannibal's personality type?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "He is the social antisocial."

Jack Crawford: "Meaning."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Meaning he's not easily influenced. I imagine you have that in common."

Jack Crawford: "We do."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Hannibal's capacity to be shaped by his social environment seemed nonexistent until he met Will Graham."

Jack Crawford: "What was it about Will?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "We are as much about ourselves as we are about those around us."

Jack Crawford: "Hannibal saw himself in Will?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Will Graham convinced Hannibal he was seeing someone as unique as himself. Just as he convinced you what Will Graham you were seeing."

Jack Crawford: "We both thought we knew him."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You're not here to understand how Hannibal was fooled. You're here to understand how you were."

Jack Crawford: "I suppose I am."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Did you see yourself in Mr. Graham?"

Jack Crawford: "I saw an asset. And a friend."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Your mistake. Hannibal made mistakes, too. Mistakes I believe he will continue to make. Will Graham is an unfinished crossword puzzle. A grid of boxes neither of you have given up trying to fill."

Jack Crawford mulls that a moment.

Jack Crawford: "I don't know how to help Will. I worry that he's a psychopath. And I worry that he isn't."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Psychopaths are narcissists. And narcissists often masquerade as sensitive introverts."

EXT. RIVER - DAY

A sensitive introvert, Will Graham, stares into middle distance. He once again gracefully casts his fly into the water.

Jack Crawford's voice: "Will?"

Will Graham turns to see Jack Crawford standing on the shore.

INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM’S CELL - NIGHT

Will Graham is on his feet, facing the wall, coming out of a fixed thousand-yard stare. Jack Crawford stands outside his cell.

Will Graham: "Hi, Jack."

Jack Crawford: "Where were you just now?"

Will Graham: "Gone fishin'. What are you doing here?"

Jack Crawford: "Feeling sentimental. I wanted to remind myself who you were. See if I could remember the man whose classroom I walked into."

Will Graham: "I remember that man. Memories are all I have. Imagine how nice it is to stumble on a new one. I was almost certain. Almost. Certain. Hannibal Lecter did this to me. It's a funny thing, doubt."

Jack Crawford: "Doubt isn't natural. We imprint on a version of the truth and have a hard time letting it go."

Will Graham: "I had nothing to prove to myself or anyone else that Hannibal was responsible. Not even a memory."

Jack Crawford: "Had nothing? You have something now, Will? You recover a memory?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

Jack Crawford bows his head. He's almost amused. Will Graham is energized.

Jack Crawford: "You know that's meaningless."

Will Graham: "Not for me. He did it so well. There wasn't even an orgy of evidence. There was just enough to convince you."

Jack Crawford: "We investigated your claims about Dr. Lecter. Thoroughly. We've gone over every fiber of every stitch of clothing. We took his DNA. We took his fingerprints. We found nothing."

Will Graham: "You let the fox into the henhouse."

Jack Crawford: "Yes. Yes, I did. You stood over a dead girl's body in that field and described yourself to me."

Will Graham: "I described Hannibal Lecter."

Jack Crawford: "I can't hear this anymore."

Will Graham: "I'm not the intelligent psychopath you're looking for."

Jack Crawford: "Good-bye, Will."

Jack Crawford turns and walks away.

Will Graham: "May not believe me now... you will."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER’S OFFICE - NIGHT

An antique clock reads 7:31. Beautiful classical music plays. We move off the clock, across a broad desk and linger briefly on a leather-bound appointment book. On the page under 7:30, it says, "Will Graham." We are in Hannibal Lecter’s office. Hannibal Lecter sits with a glass of wine, staring into the empty chair where Will Graham would have once sat. As the music soars, Hannibal Lecter’s face clouds.

INT. BSHCI - PRIVACY ROOM - NIGHT

Will Graham’s face breaks into a smile. He is chained to the table, watching, as Beverly Katz enters, the door closing and locking behind her.

Will Graham: "It's good to see you."

Beverly Katz: "Don't know how I feel about seeing you. I'll let you know when I do."

Will Graham: "Does Jack know you're here?"

Beverly Katz: "No, but he shouldn't be surprised."

Will Graham: "I'm surprised."

Beverly Katz: "I'm compartmentalizing. A lot of people are missing."

Will Graham: "Do you have the file with you?"

Beverly Katz: "Yes."

Will Graham: "And pictures."

Beverly Katz: "Yes."

She opens a file and shows him the six victims from the soup.

Beverly Katz: "The first six bodies ended up in the same place. Dumped in a river, caught in a beaver dam."

Will Graham: "What does he do to them?"

Beverly Katz: "He targets them, follows them home, abducts them and preserves them."

Will Graham: "You want to know how he's choosing them, don't you?"

Beverly Katz: "Thought you would have some ideas."

She shows him photos, pushes the file across the table.

Beverly Katz: "This second group are all missing, under similar circumstances, from three different states."

She hands him a bigger sheaf of photographs. Will Graham takes it, focuses on the pictures, concentrates.

Beverly Katz: "Tell me what you see?"

Will Graham closes his eyes. In the darkness of his mind, a pendulum swings. He opens his eyes and studies the faces in the missing persons pictures as he flips through the photographs.

In his mind, the pendulum swings. A victim's face is partially illuminated by the reflective light of the pendulum. Another victim's face. Another. Another. These are not pictures, but the actual victims staring into middle distance as the pendulum washes over them.

Will Graham concentrates on the faces as he gathers the pictures up and fans them on the table and begins arranging them. Beverly Katz watches as he slides the pictures around and around. The victims' pictures are now ordered according to skin tone—light to dark. He looks at Beverly Katz.

Will Graham: "It's a color palette."

EXT. GRAIN SILO - NIGHT

The exterior of a grain silo is shown.

INT. GRAIN SILO - NIGHT

Darkness. Dark eyes open. Roland Umber. He groans, struggles, gasps for air. He is stuck, trapped in close confinement. His eyes roll as he sees what he is trapped by and he starts to freak out.

From overhead, the view pulls out from his terrified face to reveal he is stitched along the arms and legs to other bodies, bent and formed around each other in a human tapestry. As a scream starts to build in Roland's throat, the scene cuts to black.