A craggy, dry, arid landscape. Patterned ridges alternate with troughs as deep as canyons. A sense of aridness and desolation. It feels a thousand years old. The view very slowly pulls out, moving upward, revealing this is no landscape... as the ridges resolve into the creased skin of a man's knuckle.

Pulling even further out, the back of a hand comes into view. The hand rests on a Formica table, beside a magazine. It is a strong, well-formed hand. But not a young one. Every wrinkle and crease is detailed in crisp focus. To look on this hand is to be aware of its age, its imperfections.

Now the man staring down at it is revealed -- its owner: FRANCIS DOLARHYDE. Dolarhyde, early 40s, is a large man, strong, muscular. With a hint of vulnerability and diffidence. The look in his eyes as he gazes down at that hand -- as if suddenly really seeing it for the first time -- might be mournful, fearful or both. His other hand is pressed under his nose, knuckles concealing his mouth and chin.

INT. GATEWAY - BREAK ROOM - DAY

Dolarhyde sits alone. His back to the rest of the break room where several coworkers chat among themselves. Their laughter rises above the tinned Muzak version of "In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida" playing over speakers. Dolarhyde is clearly apart from them. He takes his other hand from his mouth -- revealing the scar of a cleft lip. Something he is deeply conscious of. But right now, he remains mesmerized by the back of his hand.

He moves his hand slowly, watching the skin crinkle. A quiet susurration is audible, like brittle paper rustling, amplified. Now his focus shifts, and his hand becomes soft as the magazine below it comes into crisp focus. It is a Time magazine and it's open to a page about a William Blake retrospective. He focuses on a full-page picture of one of Blake's paintings, beneath his hand, as if he is creeping up on and about to touch "The Great Red Dragon" in Blake's watercolor, "The Great Red Dragon and the Woman Clothed in Sun." Dolarhyde's inscrutability gives way to awe.

A sequence of close-ups on Dolarhyde's body: Tendons and ligaments standing out. His abdomen slowly twisting. Muscles rippling in his back as it arches. Erotically-fetishistic detail of his physique as he stretches and contorts. Sounds of joints clicking, straining.

INT. DOLARHYDE'S HOUSE - ATTIC - NIGHT

The attic room of a large Victorian house is cluttered with antique furniture of all kinds, old books and ledgers. Dolarhyde holds himself in an excruciating yoga pose, nearly nude. His body is meticulously maintained; he's a beast. He holds the pose an extra beat. Uncomfortable to watch. Forcing himself into superior condition. Finally, he releases the pose and stands slumped, shoulders rising and falling.

A faint sound calls his attention. A growl. So soft he barely heard it. From elsewhere in the house. He listens intently, very still. But he hears nothing.

A tattoo needle is dipped and loaded with black ink. It is placed against pale skin and begins to pulse in ultra slo-mo. The needle stabbing like an insect's stinger, as the unseen tattooist begins his work. Black ink and blood appear on the skin.

Francis Dolarhyde stands now before an old, broken full-length mirror and regards himself in the broken pieces. His face in fragments. He presses a hand gently to his throat as he practices his glottal stops. The moment feels painfully intimate, private.

Francis Dolarhyde: "P... ha... p... ha... pa, pa, pa. Ng... ng... g... g... g. T... t... t... t. S... s... s... s."

Amid the fractured glass, his scar is split by a crack... a man in pieces. The growl comes again. Dolarhyde's eyes jump. This time it is louder, closer. He looks around, confused. The noise comes a second time, fainter, before trailing off. He listens. Dread and awful curiosity in his eyes.

Dolarhyde's hand rests on the Formica table in the break room. An echo of the opening shot of his hand. But now he's slowly opening and closing his hand, as if feeling new sensations. Sensing untapped power. He regards his own hand with fear and awe... Isolated from the dim murmur of work conversations in the background.

The pieces of an old film camera lie disassembled on Dolarhyde's worktable. His hands carefully polish a lens with a silk cloth. He is back in his attic room. His breathing is slow and shallow as he works, utterly focused. And then, the noise comes again -- far louder than before.

Dolarhyde's hands freeze. He looks up with a sharp intake of breath. The noise, harsh and guttural, comes a second time, louder. Insistent. Primordial. It seems to be reverberating through the house, coming from many places at once. Seemingly filling his head and the house at the same time. Dolarhyde waits, his eyes wide with fear and anticipation.

Slowly, his gaze turns to something in the far corner. Snaggletoothed and yellowed, an old lady's dentures rest in a dry glass, the water long since evaporated. The dentures vibrate ever so slightly, rattling in the glass as the noise comes again, building now, as if it is coming from the dentures themselves. And as it approaches a roar... The noise melds with a different buzzing roar.

The tattoo needle is pulsing in and out of skin. Reds and blacks form into shading, a picture taking form...

INT. HONG KONG SHOP - NIGHT

A Chinese dentist places a box on a glass counter. He opens it and pulls out the contents. Places them on the glass with a clink. The light from the display cabinets shines through a set of new dentures, perfect oversized replicas of Grandmother's teeth. Dolarhyde is the client. Looking at the dentures with awe, a trace of fear... As he reaches for them, the tattoo needle's roar is heard.

A Chinese tattoo artist is intensely focused as he applies the tattoo. This, too, is in Hong Kong. The tattoo needle fills the screen, its noise hurting our ears.

EXT. TREE - DAY

Abrupt, jarring silence. The sound of the needle gone. Sudden bright sunlight cuts through foliage. A buck knife blade picks at a tree, peeling bark and whittling a shape. As we watch, it becomes the Chinese symbol for the RED DRAGON. Dolarhyde is intent as he carves the symbol. He is high up in the tree. He smiles -- and then a noise off-screen makes him turn. The laughter of children is heard.

INT. DOLARHYDE'S HOUSE - ATTIC - DAY

Dolarhyde stands before a new mirror. This one unbroken. He wears a silk kimono... which he lets fall to the ground. The view slowly pulls wide to reveal the majestic tattoo filling his back and thighs -- THE GREAT RED DRAGON made flesh. It moves, flexing... seemingly alive as his muscles bunch and roll.

INT. NORMAN CHAPEL - DAY

Hannibal Lecter sits in a pew, eyes lowered. Silence. Tiny sounds echo in the grand space. Around and behind him sit old Italian women, all wearing dark scarves, faces in darkness. Hannibal stands out distinctly. Hannibal's eyes flick up toward the altar, which is immediately bathed in light, as if triggered by his gaze. The light illuminates a lone diva, who begins singing a choral version of "Vide Cor Meum." Hannibal smiles, moved by the music; the performance is just for him. He is utterly in control of his environment.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY (FLASHBACK)

The music continues. Hannibal Lecter is cuffed, being lifted from his knees and moved away from Jack Crawford toward a waiting FBI van. The image freezes, which turns into a lurid New York Post cover screaming the tabloid headline: "HANNIBAL THE CANNIBAL."

INT. NORMAN CHAPEL - DAY

On Hannibal Lecter, music sweeping around him. Ready for the next movement in his personal concert. He calmly looks upward. The fresco in the ceiling is illuminated now. As if under the intensity of his gaze, cracks appear in the stonework, which multiply and spread. Hannibal observes with a smile of peaceful amusement.

A man's bare feet on a white sheet of paper. A man's neat fingernails being scraped. A man's open mouth being swabbed and probed.

INT. BAU - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - DAY (FLASHBACK)

Brian Zeller and Jimmy Price, faces intent, move around a subject as they process him for evidence. Hannibal Lecter is their subject. He stands still as they comb him for evidence. Legs shackled. Hands chained to the table. It is a visual echo of Will Graham being processed. Same room. Same background. A TattleCrime headline washes across: "KITCHEN NIGHTMARE."

INT. NORMAN CHAPEL - DAY

Hannibal Lecter's hands, unchained, move with the music -- conducting it. Above him, cracks in the ceiling fresco spread. The diva's singing is joined by the groaning of the building. A chunk of masonry starts falling behind him in slo-mo, then another, as the chapel starts to collapse. Chunks of rubble fall toward the old Italian women. Sounds of destruction tell us what we need to know.

INT. BSHCI - CORRIDOR - DAY (FLASHBACK)

We follow Hannibal Lecter as he walks, escorted by two orderlies. He is in BSHCI overalls, shackled at wrists and ankles. A magazine interview with Dr. Chilton washes through: "There is no name for what this man is. He may not even be a man."

INT. NORMAN CHAPEL - DAY

The ceiling fragments in mid-fall all around Hannibal Lecter now, as we hear the chapel tearing itself apart. He glances subtly at the old Italian women about to be pulverized by the falling rubble. The faintest smile crosses his face. Still the music plays, now a soundtrack to destruction, soaring to new heights.

INT. BSHCI - HANNIBAL LECTER'S CELL - DAY (FLASHBACK)

Hannibal Lecter's face is stoic. Expressionless. The view pulls out from that image, passing through steel bars, then a nylon net, to reveal Hannibal is standing in his purpose-built cell. Bare and monastic. White. Nothing personal within it. His hair is now shorter, his eyes are duller, he's been incarcerated a long time.

THREE YEARS LATER

A cork is worked out of a wine bottle, slowly, ceremoniously. A wineglass is filled. Nostrils enter frame and take a glorious whiff of a white truffle. Hannibal Lecter allows the aroma of the truffle to linger, then takes a sip of the wine. Appreciates its excellence. He is clad in a dapper plaid suit.

Hannibal Lecter: "Bâtard-Montrachet and tartuffi bianchi."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal Lecter sits behind his desk, across from Alana Bloom, the gorgeous white truffle between them. There's a playful yet slightly-challenging tone.

Alana Bloom: "How I found you in Florence."

Hannibal Lecter: "Betrayed by good taste. Is good taste itching at you in your daily rounds of institutional life?"

Alana Bloom: "An itch easy enough to scratch... when there's cause to celebrate. Congratulations, Hannibal. You're officially insane."

Hannibal Lecter: "There's no consensus in the psychiatric community what I should be termed."

Alana Bloom: "You've long been regarded by your peers in psychiatry as something entirely Other. For convenience, they term you a monster."

Hannibal Lecter: "What do you term me?"

Alana Bloom: "I don't. You defy categorization."

She takes another sip and makes a small "yummy" sound.

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you still prefer beer to wine?"

Alana Bloom: "Stopped drinking beer when I found out what you were putting in mine."

Hannibal Lecter: "Who."

Alana Bloom: "Who."

At that, Alana slowly transforms from reality into art: a charcoal of Botticelli's Fortitude with Alana's face. The drawing speaks.

Alana Bloom: "This means you'll be spared the federal death sentence."

INT. BSHCI - HANNIBAL LECTER'S CELL - DAY

The drawing is inside Hannibal Lecter's cell. Hannibal is now in BSHCI-issue garb. He sits before the glass of his cage, facing Alana on the other side. His cell is a white canvas on which he can project his memory palace. A small scattering of books and drawings and articles that intrigue him, but minimal. On his table, a newspaper. Headline: "FAMILY SLAUGHTERED IN BUFFALO."

Alana Bloom: "They had enough to convict you a dozen times over."

Hannibal Lecter: "A baker's dozen. Lest we forget Mason Verger. You're welcome."

Alana Bloom: "You're welcome, Hannibal. The needle was guaranteed. But you beat it all on an insanity plea."

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm not insane."

Alana Bloom: "You know that and I know that. A dozen or a baker's dozen, enough people have died."

Hannibal Lecter: "You haven't."

Alana Bloom: "A promise in waiting, isn't it? A promise you intend to keep."

Hannibal Lecter: "I always keep my promises."

Hannibal Lecter smiles.

EXT. BUFFALO, NY - LEEDS HOUSE - NIGHT

Moving down from the full moon, through trees, past the recently-carved Red Dragon symbol, white against the bole of a tree. Moving over a high fence and into a large family yard. Across the grass, a large pair of bare human feet spotted with black. Moving up his legs, the Red Dragon tattoo is on Francis Dolarhyde's back. He stands naked, looking up at the full moon. Moving around him again to reveal his torso gleams with slick, viscous black liquid. The black surrounds his mouth and chin, having run down his neck onto his chest.

Milk is being poured into a small metal pot. Dramatic opera music over it. This is a classic Hannibal Lecter-food-prep sequence -- but the cookware is more minimalist, no sign of knives or sharp instruments, nothing more dangerous than a spatula. A blue flame flickers to life on a Sterno cooking kit. A saucer of blood is tipped into the pot, the dark crimson staining the creamy white, stirred by a plastic spoon into a delicate swirl, which evolves into a rusty pale soup. Sugar and spices float in slo-mo through the air, dusted into the pot. Dark chocolate is crumbled into pieces between Hannibal's fingers, then dropped into the simmering blood-milk. The mixture thickens into a rich custard as it is stirred and heated. This is sanguinaccio dolce, a thick and decadent chocolate mousse with just a hint of steak-like redness. The sanguinaccio dolce is poured into two cups with the help of a plastic spatula. Savoiardi biscuits and an assortment of berries are arranged on small plates around each cup. It looks simple and delicious.

INT. BSHCI - HANNIBAL LECTER'S CELL - DAY

Across the immaculate table, Hannibal Lecter is a perfect host, sitting across from Dr. Frederick Chilton who's expensively and stylishly dressed. Hannibal wears institutional garb.

Hannibal Lecter: "Sanguinaccio dolce, a classic Neapolitan dessert, with almond milk. Easier on your stomach."

One of the servings is placed on a table. A plastic spoon descends, scoops a bite of the dessert and raises it to Dr. Frederick Chilton's mouth. He's wearing his contact lens and makeup, looking quite well these days. He hesitates before eating.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Sanguinaccio dolce. You have served me this before."

Hannibal Lecter: "One of my favorite desserts. Traditionally made with pigs' blood. In this case, a local cow."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "And when you last made it for me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "The blood was from a cow only in the derogatory sense."

Dr. Frederick Chilton eyes Hannibal Lecter, then eats the spoonful and savors it.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Blood and chocolate. That should have been the subtitle of my book. But I promised myself I would never use colons in my titles. Colons lose their novelty when overused."

Hannibal Lecter: "You'll have to write another book."

Dr. Frederick Chilton continues to eat enthusiastically as he talks.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I am. But not about you. Like overused punctuation, the novelty of Hannibal the Cannibal has waned now that you've been 'solved.'"

Hannibal Lecter: "What is the subject of your new book, Frederick?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "The Tooth Fairy. I find folks are a bit more interested in him."

Dr. Frederick Chilton indicates the newspaper near Hannibal's bed: "FAMILY SLAUGHTERED IN BUFFALO."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "He is the debutante. Although he lacks your love of presentation."

Hannibal Lecter: "More of a shy boy, this one."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Love to hear your thoughts. What do you think about the Tooth Fairy?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I think he doesn't like being called the Tooth Fairy."

Dr. Frederick Chilton has now finished his dessert. He licks the spoon as he offhandedly continues.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "It's not as snappy as Hannibal the Cannibal, but he has a much wider demographic than you do. You, with your fancy allusions and fussy aesthetics, will always have niche appeal, but this fellow, there is something so universal about what he does. Kills whole families. And in their homes. Strikes at the very core of the American Dream. Might say he's a four-quadrant killer."

INT. BSHCI - DIRECTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

Dr. Frederick Chilton sits behind the desk, leafing through papers. He looks up as the door opens to see Alana Bloom framed in the doorway.

Alana Bloom: "Get out of my chair, Frederick."

Alana is now the director of the asylum. Dr. Frederick Chilton stands and steps away. She sits at her desk, reorganizing the documents he was messing with.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Shall we join hands in a prayer of gratitude? 'Thank you, Father, for allowing us to remove this monster, monster of monsters, from your flock. Thank you on behalf of the souls We will spare of pain.'"

Alana Bloom: "Thank you on behalf of the monster. Was that the magisterial 'We'?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "It's our cabal, yours and mine. Hannibal Lecter will spend the rest of his life in a state institution, watching the diaper cart go by."

Alana Bloom: "We lied. You wrote a book of lies."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Not difficult to see lies flying above my head, but it is almost impossible to shoot them down."

Alana Bloom: "Hannibal will shoot them down. He's written a brilliant piece for The American Journal of Psychiatry."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Everything he writes is always about problems he doesn't have."

Alana Bloom: "What he's written is going to be your problem. It's not so much an article as it is a rebuttal. He has an acid pen."

Dr. Frederick Chilton blinks, then composes his self-satisfied self.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Hard to believe an inmate's opinion will count for anything in the professional community."

Alana Bloom: "It's going to count, Frederick. And it's going to sting."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "You think he would have taken the opportunity to gloat."

Alana Bloom: "He will have plenty of time to gloat watching the diaper carts go by. What did you two talk about?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I am always surprised you don't listen in. When I was in your position, I recorded every word."

Alana Bloom: "That's illegal. What did you talk about, Frederick?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "The Tooth Fairy. Detected a trace of competitive vanity in our man. I would be cautious. The Young Turk may inspire the Old Lithuanian to keep himself interesting."

INT. DOLARHYDE'S HOUSE - ATTIC - NIGHT

Dolarhyde's face is wreathed in darkness, lit by a flickering glow. He is watching something, rapt. He sits absolutely still, transfixed, as whatever he's watching continues to play. It has no soundtrack, but music plays from a turntable behind him. Next to him, a film projector throws light through celluloid, clicking rapidly as reels spin.

That noise comes in again. The same one he heard in the Teaser. A low growl that seems to come from everywhere at once. Dolarhyde looks around, alarmed. He takes the needle off the record and the music stops.

From the corner of his eye, he sees something slide out of sight -- there, and then gone. He only glimpsed it, but it looked like a reptilian tail. The noise comes from the darkness, low and intimate now. Dolarhyde flinches. The noise comes again, louder and threatening. Overwhelmed, Dolarhyde closes his eyes tight, claps his hands over his ears as if to deny the beast.

Then, slowly, he removes his hands and opens his eyes. Deep inside his skull, a light begins to grow and flicker deep beneath the surface; a warm illuminating glow. Dolarhyde averts his eyes as something big moves behind him, seen through the gaps in the spinning reels of film. His head is now mummified in strips of celluloid melted to his face, yet the film is somehow still moving over him like snakes; the flicker of light inside him projects through it. A flash of the projected image shows leathery, reddish wings unfurling.

INT. BSHCI - HANNIBAL LECTER'S CELL - NIGHT

The partial moon hangs in the sky. Hannibal Lecter lies on his bunk, looking through the skylight above at the same moon, which shines down on him, wreathing the space in a blue light; the nighttime guards look like ghosts.

EXT. BALTIMORE STATE HOSPITAL FOR THE CRIMINALLY INSANE

Time-lapse establishing, as night becomes day.

INT. BSHCI - HANNIBAL LECTER'S CELL - DAY

Articles, periodicals, newspapers and fan mail cover Hannibal's desk. There are articles about Hannibal himself, letters from admirers. He pushes them aside and focuses on one, rapt. He begins carefully folding the article in precise creases and sets about tearing it free.

Francis Dolarhyde clips the same article, his scissors moving. We intercut his gaze and Hannibal's. A great ledger, at least a hundred years old, bound in black leather with brass corners, sits on a sturdy table, centered beneath a painting of Blake's The Great Red Dragon. Dolarhyde settles into a chair and opens the ledger. Across the first page, in large letters, are the words from Revelation: "And There Came a Great Red Dragon Also..."

He flicks the pages of the large journal. The first item in the book, and the only one not neatly mounted: a yellowed photograph of a small boy with his grandmother on the steps of a big house. The other pages contain articles about Hannibal's murders and his arrest. Scribbled over in a neat, controlled hand. The musings of a man in torment.

Hannibal's eyes move across the papers before him. Dolarhyde flicks to clean pages where he sticks a fresh clipping, revealing the article both he and Hannibal have been clipping. Headline: "TOOTH FAIRY MASSACRES 'PERFECT FAMILIES.'" Dolarhyde uses a red sharpie to scrub out the words "Tooth Fairy."

Hannibal Lecter looks up from the same article. Some time later, he is thinking, composing in his mind as he sits at his table, a sheet of expensive paper before him. He holds a stick of charcoal. With it, he begins to write: "Dear Will..."

EXT. MOOSEHEAD LAKE, ME - FISHING CABIN - DAY

An achingly-beautiful view -- pine-forested hills surrounding a frozen lake beneath a vast blue sky softly painted with clouds. Dogs run among the trees, kicking up the snow. Down the slope, a rustic fishing cabin sits overlooking the lake. Will Graham comes into frame, bundled against the cold, but enjoying the air on his face as he repairs a fence. And then his face falls a little. He stands. A black SUV is coming down the track. He watches it, face inscrutable.

EXT. FISHING CABIN - VERANDA - DAY

A mug of hot cider is set large in the foreground, steam rising from it in ghostly ribbons. It has been placed before Jack Crawford by Will Graham. The two men sit on the veranda overlooking the lake. Several stray dogs lie and mill at their feet. Will's posture is relaxed. He's unshaven. Jack is wearing a more formal overcoat, here on business.

Jack Crawford: "Don't want to talk inside? Don't want to let me inside. Come too far to let the cold stop me, Will."

Will Graham: "Why should the cold do something common sense couldn't?"

Jack Crawford: "You don't want to talk about it here."

Will Graham: "I don't want to talk about it anywhere. You've got to talk about it, so let's have it. Just don't get out any pictures. Molly and Walter will be back soon."

Jack Crawford: "How much do you know?"

Will Graham: "Two families killed, in their homes, a month apart. Similar circumstances."

Jack Crawford: "Not 'similar.' The same. You ever think about giving me a call?"

Will Graham: "No."

Jack Crawford: "You know what it is."

Will Graham: "I didn't call you because I didn't want to. I don't think I'd be all that useful to you, Jack. I never think about it anymore. I don't believe I could do it now."

Will Graham looks down the lakeshore to where a woman, Molly, and her eleven-year-old son, Walter, are walking toward them. Jack pulls two photos from his jacket pocket and flips them face up onto the table. Snapshots. Two happy families.

Jack Crawford: "All dead. This freak seems to be in phase with the moon. Killed the Jacobis in Chicago almost four weeks ago. Full moon. Killed the Leeds family in Buffalo night before last. One day short of a lunar month. If we're lucky, we have a little over three weeks before he does it again."

And then Molly and Walter are coming toward them, a little out of breath, chilly, their noses red. The dogs milling to greet them.

EXT. FISHING CABIN - WOODPILE - NIGHT

An ax splits a block of wood, revealing Molly standing nearby. Will chops wood as Molly picks up the pieces.

Molly: "Jack stopped by to see me at the shop before he came out here. He asked directions to the house."

Will Graham: "He said he got lost."

Molly: "Good. That was the idea. I tried to call you. You really ought to answer the phone once in a while."

Will Graham: "What else did he ask you?"

Molly: "He asked how you are. I said you're fine. Said, if you missed your other life, you'd talk about it. You never do. You're open and calm and easy now, and I love that. Are you going to help him?"

Will Graham: "Helping Jack is bad for me."

INT. FISHING CABIN - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

A crackling fire burns in the hearth. The dogs wander up to Jack and flop to the ground around him and the modest dining table at which he's seated along with Will, Molly and young Walter. The remains of a fine fish dinner sit on the table. There is a nearly-empty bottle of red wine.

Molly: "Those are probably dogs. People dump small ones here all the time. I can give away the cute ones, rest stay around and get to be big ones."

Will Graham: "Molly's a sucker for strays."

Molly: "You're not fooling anybody."

Jack Crawford: "Got a nice life here."

Will Graham: "I'm lucky here. I know that."

Walter: "I'm gonna take the dogs out to pee."

Walter gets up from the table and makes a clicking noise with his tongue and the dogs all rise to follow him.

Jack Crawford: "How old is he?"

Will Graham: "Eleven."

Jack Crawford: "He's going to be taller than you."

Will Graham: "His father was. I'll come with you, Wally."

Will leaves the table and assists Walter in corralling the dogs out the front door, leaving Molly alone with Jack.

Molly: "Whatever he says he wants to do, you'll take him anyway, won't you?"

Jack Crawford: "I have to. I'll make it as easy on him as I can. He's changed. It's great you got married."

Molly: "He's better and better. He doesn't dream so much now. He was really obsessed with the dogs for a while. Now he just takes care of them. He doesn't talk about them all the time. Doesn't worry about them."

Jack Crawford: "I know what I'm asking. And I wished to God I didn't have to."

Jack quietly produces the pictures he showed Will -- the families, alive and happy. He slides them across the table.

INT. FISHING CABIN - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Molly sits up in bed as Will pulls off his boots. She rests on his shoulders and he leans into her. She kisses his neck.

Molly: "How bad is it gonna be if you stay here and read about the next one? If you stay here and there's more killing, maybe it'd sour this place for you. High Noon and all that."

Will Graham: "Do you want me to go?"

Molly: "I'd have the satisfaction that you did the right thing. He kills families. No one knows how he chooses them. What if he chose us?"

Will Graham: "Don't say that. If I go... I'll be different when I get back."

Molly: "I won't."

Will kisses Molly tenderly.

Later, the camera moves through the darkened bedroom to find Molly as she sleeps peacefully. Beside her, Will Graham is lying awake. Will looks to Molly beside him in bed, and then gets up in his underwear. He pulls a drawer open quietly and takes out a letter. The envelope is addressed to Will c/o the FBI.

INT. FISHING CABIN - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Will stares at the fireplace and then the letter in his hand. He tears it open and pulls a second envelope from within, the salutation written in charcoal. Will considers it and then rips it open. He opens the folded paper and a clipping falls to the ground. He traps it with one foot. Will regards the letter and its handwriting: recognizably Hannibal's. As Will reads, we hear Hannibal's voice.

Hannibal Lecter: "Dear Will, we have all found a new life, but our old lives hover in the shadows, like incipient madness. Soon enough, I fear Jack Crawford will come knocking. I would encourage you, as a friend, not to step back through the door he holds open. It's dark on the other side and madness is waiting..."

Will ponders this note for a moment and then bends and picks up the clipping: the newspaper article about the Tooth Fairy killings. He tosses it into the fire, along with the note from Hannibal, and watches them both burn.

EXT. BUFFALO, NY - LEEDS HOUSE - BACKYARD - NIGHT

A half moon echoes the full moon from before. Will approaches the sliding-glass door from the backyard, trees crowding over the high back fence behind him. He notices an empty doghouse tucked away from the house. Will tucks his flashlight under his chin and scribbles on a pad from his pocket: "Jack - where is the dog?" He pulls a police seal off the door and steps inside.

INT. LEEDS HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Quiet. The only lights are blue pilot lights on the stove. Will is silent and still, just feeling the house. He crosses to the refrigerator and opens the door, bathing the room in pale light. Among the family-friendly array of healthy foods and bottles of milk is a peeled mini cheese wheel with a jagged bite taken out of it. The thermostat clicks and the heat comes on. Will flinches. He shuts the refrigerator door and turns on his flashlight, illuminating the empty room. His face lit from below in the backwash of his flashlight beam, he ascends the staircase in fluid slow motion toward the upstairs hallway.

INT. LEEDS HOUSE - BOYS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

The flashlight pans to see a dark bedroom in disarray. Two beds empty, the sheets flung aside on the floor. Red strings, representing blood spatter, stretch out from origin points, one in each bed, to the headboards, walls and floor, like strange spiny flowers. As the flashlight beam passes over the strings and their origin points, the small balls on sticks become the dead Leeds children, but only within the core of the flashlight beam, like a wormhole through time, lying as they were found and photographed.

In the upstairs hallway, a smashed mirror's shards shine brilliantly as Will plays the flashlight over them. His face is fragmented in the shards, his eyes blink out of sync. He follows the flashlight beam down the hall toward an ominously-open door at the end. On the outer edges of the beam, bloodstains and drag marks are visible on the floor. A few red strings extend out from the bloodstains. The flashlight beam reveals the dead Charles Leeds lying as he was found. Finally, Will reaches that open door and enters.

INT. LEEDS HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Darkness. Shapes of furniture. Glints of mirror shards. Ominous dark designs on the walls. Will's face is steely. Finally, he flicks on the light, the switch smeared with blood and strands of Mr. Leeds's hair. Red strings extend from multiple origin points, turning the bedroom into a nightmarish, phantasmagoric forest of red tendrils. Blood is everywhere -- splashed on the walls, the bed a mess of it, up the headboard and across the walls -- more Jackson Pollock than Raphael: jagged and jarring, insane.

Will is shaking. Gathering his composure. He takes a breath, exhales, shuts his eyes. Resolutely, he opens the case file and reads by flashlight. He sees crime scene photos: the kitchen from that night and the backyard.

A pendulum swings inside Will's mind, and then it is outside his head, in the bedroom. As it swings, the red strings pull away, coiling off into Mr. Leeds's throat as he stumbles backward toward his bed. The dried spatters of blood liquefy and rise in slo-mo from the places where they fell. Time reversing itself. Mr. and Mrs. Leeds now lie in the bed, sleeping, alive. Will's face is filled with anguish. This is not easy.

The broken mirror reassembles, whole and smooth, as Will walks backward down the hall. Two boys now sleep soundly in their beds. Will walks backward across the kitchen and back to the yard. He steps back and looks at the house, closes his eyes. The pendulum clicks into place.

Will, now in full reenactment mode, licks a suction cup and, with latex-gloved hands, sticks it to the glass. A glass cutter traces a circle on the clean glass -- then punches the circle loose. Will reaches through the hole and unlocks the door. He moves with a smooth, purposeful glide through the kitchen, up the stairs, to the master bedroom.

He strides in, his body language that of an entirely-different person -- large, aggressive. He slashes Mr. Leeds's throat. Blood gouts. As the man rises, groping blindly and gushing blood.

Will Graham: "I cut Mr. Leeds's throat as he lay asleep beside his wife."

Will flicks the light switch, leaving a smear of blood. Mrs. Leeds wakes and Will shoots her in the abdomen with a silenced pistol, the muzzle flash illuminating Will's face.

Will Graham: "I shoot Mrs. Leeds. The bullet enters to the right of her navel and lodges in her lumbar spine. But she will die of strangulation."

Mr. Leeds is moving toward Will, losing great gouts of blood.

Will Graham: "Mr. Leeds rises, with his throat cut, and tries to protect the children."

Will shoves Mr. Leeds aside and he stumbles toward the hall. Will watches as Mrs. Leeds falls back in shock and pain. He turns methodically and walks out into the hallway, moving into the boys' bedroom. Two more muzzle flashes wash across his emotionless features.

Will Graham: "I shoot one of the two boys in bed. The other boy I drag out from under his bed and shoot him on the floor."

In the hall, Mr. Leeds staggers from the master bedroom, covered in blood, but collapses before he can reach Will, who doesn't react.

Will Graham: "All of them are dead, except possibly Mrs. Leeds. The smashing of mirrors begins."

Will smashes the hallway mirror. Sees himself in the shards. Quick shots of bathroom mirrors, closet mirrors, vanity mirrors being smashed. A shard of glass is lodged over one of Mrs. Leeds's eyes. Her eyes and mouth have mirror shards wedged across and in them.

Will stands above Mrs. Leeds lying on her golden sheets. Something is wrong. He glances at the walls behind him. There are three tracks of bloodstains, smeared from the hallway to the wall where three bloodstains have soaked: a higher-source stain flanked by two lower patches.

Will Graham: "I moved the family after they were dead and then put them back the way they were when I killed them."

Will stands in the same position he was in before, looking at the wall. But this time, behind him are Mr. Leeds flanked by the two boys. The mirrors in their eyes glimmer while the rest of their bodies fall into darkness. They are all propped against the wall.

Will Graham: "I wanted them to watch."

He turns to the bed where Mrs. Leeds still writhes.

Will Graham: "Talcum powder on the body... but there was none in the house..."

Will's latex-gloved hand snaps off the glove, leaving his hand naked in the cool air. Talc powder floats down in slo-mo. He stands in front of the bed, bathed in a warm light.

Will Graham: "I have to touch her..."

Mrs. Leeds's eyes and mouth glow with golden light emanating from her, reflecting off the golden sheets of the bed. As Will reaches out to touch the Woman Clothed in Sun, behind him, red strings fan into the air, creating his wings.

Will Graham: "This is my design."

INT. FUNERAL HOME - CORRIDOR - DAY

A pair of shoes moves into frame, followed by two large roller cases. We track up to find Jimmy Price, wheeling his hard-shell evidence kit behind him down a corridor. He moves with purpose, utterly no-nonsense. A different air about him, a confidence.

INT. FUNERAL HOME - PREPARATION ROOM - DAY

Jimmy Price examines the fingertips of a praying-hands sculpture. He has his back to an officious-looking funeral director, Mr. Lombard, who is checking Price's credentials with extreme care.

Jimmy Price: "I was told you were told I was coming. Were you not told?"

Mr. Lombard: "Your office or agency called me, of course, but last night we had to remove an obnoxious flame-haired woman trying to take pictures. I'm being very careful. I'm sure you understand, Mr. Price."

Jimmy Price: "Agent. Special."

Mr. Lombard: "Special Agent Price. The bodies were only released to us at one o'clock this morning, and the funeral is at five this afternoon. We simply can't delay it."

Jimmy Price: "This won't take long. I'll need one reasonably-intelligent assistant, if you have one. Have you touched the bodies yourself, Mr. Lombard?"

Mr. Lombard: "No."

Jimmy Price: "Find out who has. I'll have to print them all."

He snaps on latex gloves. There is a great clacking at the door as Brian Zeller enters. He is overwhelmed with two heavy cases, plus a camera bag and tripod.

Jimmy Price: "Cancel the reasonably-intelligent assistant, mine just showed up."

Brian Zeller: "I can't help you with your thing. I've got a thing."

Jimmy Price: "What thing do you got?"

Brian Zeller: "I'm reconstructing teeth from bite marks on Mrs. Leeds and this Mini Babybel cheddar cheese wheel from her refrigerator."

He produces a mini cheese wheel in an evidence bag.

Brian Zeller: "Tooth Fairy was feeling peckish."

Jimmy Price: "Come on, then. We'll double-Dutch. Woman's got to get in the ground."

The body bag is unzipped revealing Mrs. Leeds. An equipment case is opened. Evidence-gathering tools are pulled and prepped. Fingernails are checked for prints. Bite marks are measured and photographed. A macro shot shows the delicate process as Jimmy tries to take fingerprints from the cornea of Mrs. Leeds's eye. Then her other eye -- with an eight-ball hemorrhage blackening the white. Jimmy Price is reflected in it, and then, as he moves, something else -- the fine lines of a partial thumbprint. Jimmy smiles. A fine mist comes at the camera as Jimmy fumes the print. With utter concentration, he lifts the print.

Jimmy Price: "Voilà."

INT. BAU - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - DAY

Zeller and Price flank the illustration of the partial thumbprint on the wall behind them. They are staring quizzically at Jack and Will.

Jimmy Price: "It's a partial. Probably a thumb."

Jack and Will stand in front of them. Zeller and Price are mildly distracted by Will's presence.

Jack Crawford: "Jimmy, you're the light of my life."

Jimmy Price: "I know. The print's smudged. Came off Mrs. Leeds's eye. Never did that before. Never would've seen it, but it stood out against an eight-ball hemorrhage."

He can't help stealing glances at Will.

Jimmy Price: "I just... I can't believe you're back. I'm surprised you're back."

Brian Zeller: "Welcome back."

Jimmy Price: "It's good to see you."

Jack Crawford: "Jimmy."

Price focuses back on the task, blows up scans on a screen.

Jimmy Price: "The mirror pieces all had those smooth prints. Forefinger on the back of the piece wedged in the labia, smudged thumb on the front."

Will Graham: "He polished it after he placed it, so he could see his face in there."

Jimmy Price: "One in her mouth was obscured with blood. Same with the eyes. Ran an AFIS. He's not in the print index."

Brian Zeller: "We could always do a Have-You-Seen-These-Teeth sort of APB."

Zeller wheels a trolley to them. On its surface is a Lucite stand displaying a set of teeth molded in resin, with a hinge.

Brian Zeller: "They're distinctive."

They look at the mold -- a replica of Dolarhyde's dentures.

Brian Zeller: "Pegged lateral incisors. Here and here. The teeth are all crooked, a corner is missing from this central incisor. The other incisor is grooved, here. It looks like a 'tailor's notch,' the kind of wear you get biting thread."

Jack Crawford: "Snaggletooth son of a bitch."

Brian Zeller: "He bites a lot. Six bad ones in Mrs. Leeds. Eight in Mrs. Jacobi."

Will Graham: "He may have a history of biting in lesser assaults. May be a fighting pattern as much as sexual behavior."

Jack Crawford: "What's he fighting, Will?"

INT. HOTEL - WILL GRAHAM'S ROOM - NIGHT

Will enters and places the cardboard box of evidence on the dresser. Then he puts it in a drawer where he won't see it. He pours two fingers of whiskey into a bathroom glass, swallows it, and dials his phone. It rings and rings.

INT. FISHING CABIN - NIGHT

The telephone continues to ring as the camera pushes past it to a window beyond, and the peaceful night outside.

EXT. FISHING CABIN - NIGHT

Molly and Walter are lying on their backs on a blanket in the snow, gazing up at the sky above. A series of light streaks move through the darkness. Walter's head rests in the crook of his mother's arm. Molly makes the sound she imagines a shooting star must make.

Molly: "Whoooshhh."

INT. HOTEL - WILL GRAHAM'S ROOM - NIGHT

The "shhh" of Molly's "Whoooshhh" lingers in a haunting "hush." Will lies in his bed as the room slowly dissolves to black around him until he appears to be floating in a void.

INT. BAU - JACK CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - DAY

Jack looks up from his desk to see Will standing before him.

Jack Crawford: "You were asking about the dog. Last night, a vet called the police. Leeds and his oldest boy brought it into the vet the afternoon before they were killed."

Will Graham: "What's going to happen to it?"

Jack Crawford: "Please don't worry about the dog."

Will Graham: "What do you expect me to do?"

Jack Crawford: "Best you can, that's all. Busywork's been a narcotic for me sometimes, especially after I quit the booze. For you too, I think."

Will Graham: "There's something else I can do. I can wait until I'm driven to it by desperation in the last days before the full moon. Or I could do it now, while it might be of some use."

Jack Crawford: "Is there an opinion you want, Will?"

Will Graham: "A mindset I need to recover. I have to see Hannibal."

EXT. BALTIMORE STATE HOSPITAL FOR THE CRIMINALLY INSANE - DAY

Time-lapse establishing.

INT. BSHCI - CORRIDOR - DAY

Will moves down the corridors of the BSHCI, behind an orderly, hating being there. The hall begins to darken as Will walks, until the scene reveals we are now in the Norman Chapel at night. Will walks steadily toward the altar, eyes flat, emotionless, as Hannibal Lecter is revealed standing in front of the pulpit, behind a wall of glass. Will walks calmly up to the glass as the scene shifts back to reality.

INT. BSHCI - HANNIBAL LECTER'S CELL - DAY

Hannibal Lecter stands on the other side of the glass, in his cell, facing Will. His surroundings are a converted space in the asylum. The windows and fireplace have been cemented over and the furnishings are minimal, but it's very comfortable.

Will Graham: "Hello, Dr. Lecter."

Hannibal Lecter: "Hello, Will."