EXT. WOODLAND - NIGHT

Shafts of beautiful winter moonlight filter through the trees. Will Graham stands in the woods, dressed in hunting gear with a rifle under his arm. He moves through the forest, stepping carefully, gun raised at port arms. He listens to the woodland symphony.

He sees movement in the trees up ahead and raises his rifle to his shoulder. Slowly, the Black Stag moves into view, fearsome and majestic. It turns and looks right at Will Graham. Will Graham is frozen. Then his finger tightens on the trigger.

But the Black Stag is gone. There’s a rustling in the trees behind him. Will Graham spins around, rifle at the ready.

He catches a glimpse of the Black Stag moving. Will Graham follows it with his gun, then loses sight. He listens with the barrel of his rifle. More rustling to his right. Then to his left. Then silence.

Will Graham slowly advances deeper into the forest, moving cautiously. He approaches a thicket of branches, and the Black Stag bolts. Will Graham fires. The stag runs.

Will Graham arrives where the stag was and finds blood on the leaves. It smears across his fingers.

Will Graham follows the spots of blood, his pursuit becoming faster, more urgent. He breathes hard, his breath frosting in the cold air.

He sees a patch of blood, slick and black in the moonlight. He stops as the Black Stag comes into view ahead, between the trees. He raises the rifle, but it is there and then gone. Will Graham runs to the spot.

He sees the stag again. Raises his rifle.

BLAM!

The Black Stag judders and crashes through the undergrowth. Will Graham follows after it. It disappears into a dense thicket. Crashing sounds come from within, as if the stag has collapsed.

Will Graham, hoarse and panting, pushes into the thicket, tense and nervous. He glimpses antlers moving low to the ground through the brush.

Will Graham parts the branches with his rifle barrel. He sees Abigail Hobbs.

She stares up at him, her eyes fixed on Will Graham in a silent plea. She looks exactly as she did when he first saw her in her family’s kitchen, but instead of a slit throat, there is a bullet hole in her neck gushing blood in spurts. Instead of lying on a kitchen floor, she is in mud and snow. Will Graham stares in fixed horror.

A figure is near Will Graham; it is black, melding into the shadows, almost human but with an anthered head. Suddenly, shockingly, this Man-Stag is nearly upon Will Graham, fixing him with a terrifying gaze.

Will Graham wakes up with a jerk.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY 1

Will Graham is in his bed, dawn light streaking through the windows. He looks drawn, ill, groggy. The dogs are barking and he throws back the covers. His feet and legs are covered in dried mud which smears the bedclothes. The light hurts his eyes. Will Graham is immediately concerned.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY 1

It is a beautiful winter morning. Will Graham shields his eyes on the porch as the dogs rush out barking. Winston stays by Will Graham’s side. He looks down at him. Winston pushes his head under his hand. The others bark and mill about, agitated. Will Graham turns back inside.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY 1

The dogs fuss around Will Graham as he heads for the sink and runs the tap good and cold. He drinks from the faucet.

He grabs a bottle of aspirin and weighs four in his palm before swallowing them, then bends back to the faucet, feeling bad. He glugs water, sighing between each swallow. He straightens, wipes his mouth.

Then, with sudden violence, he retches and hurls into the sink. He stares.

Lying in the sink, spotted with aspirin, is a grey, perfectly intact human ear. Will Graham stares at it.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY 1

Will Graham explodes off the porch and drops to his knees in the yard, retching and retching but nothing more comes. He looks up, around. Nothing. He whirls around. Woods all around. The world spins around his anxiety, his anguish, his fear.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY 1

Will Graham sits on the porch, shivering and staring. Hannibal Lecter's car pulls up and Hannibal Lecter gets out. He comes to Will Graham.

Will Graham: "I went to Minnesota. I took Abigail. We went to Minnesota. She didn’t come back with me."

Hannibal Lecter feigns shock and concern.

Hannibal Lecter: "Show me."

He holds out a hand. Will Graham looks at it, looks up at Hannibal Lecter, and then takes it and stands. Hannibal Lecter ushers him inside.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY 1

Hannibal Lecter wraps a blanket around Will Graham and sits him down.

Hannibal Lecter walks through the kitchen doorway and stares at what is in the sink with stunned silence. Will Graham sits in the living room, looking into the middle distance.

Will Graham: "I don’t remember going to bed last night. But I must have. Maybe I got up to let the dogs out and I..."

Hannibal Lecter: "When did you last see Abigail?"

Will Graham: "I woke up and my feet were muddy."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will. When did you last see Abigail?"

Will Graham: "Yesterday. At her father’s cabin. I had an episode. She said something was wrong with me. She was afraid of me. She ran away."

Hannibal Lecter: "What happened? Why was she afraid?"

Will Graham: "I hallucinated. I hallucinated that I killed her. But it wasn’t real. I know it wasn’t real."

He looks at Hannibal Lecter, desperate and terrified. Hannibal Lecter is saddened, concerned. He kneels next to Will Graham.

Hannibal Lecter: "Will, we have to call Jack Crawford. You can’t run from this. It will only make things worse."

Off Will Graham's slow nod, he continues.

Hannibal Lecter: "Get dressed."

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - ENCLOSED PATIO - DAY 1

Hannibal Lecter stands patiently next to the door observing the perimeter FBI agents and local police have established. Among the FBI and Animal Services vehicles, Brian Zeller, Beverly Katz, and Jimmy Price wait patiently.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 1

Jack Crawford stands with two FBI agents, surrounded by the dogs. Will Graham sits, still stunned, in his overstuffed chair.

Jack Crawford: "What are we going to find when we go to Minnesota, Will?"

Will Graham searches for an answer he doesn’t have, then admits:

Will Graham: "I don’t know."

Jack Crawford studies Will Graham, his broken pony, then turns to an agent.

Jack Crawford: "Process him."

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY 1

The front door swings open revealing Hannibal Lecter still standing on the porch, a sadly stoic expression on his face.

Will Graham is in handcuffs, with two FBI agents at his side. Jack Crawford follows Will Graham out, but stops on the porch with Hannibal Lecter. Jack Crawford nods to his team and the Animal Control officers and FBI agents, including Zeller, Price and Katz, get to work, picking up their gear.

From Will Graham’s perspective, Zeller, Price, and Katz move into his home with evidence collection kits, their expressions dour. They look at Will Graham, then look away. Beverly Katz looks back, making eye contact. Will Graham holds her gaze for a moment then has to look away.

Will Graham is marched across the front yard by the two FBI agents. They lead him to an FBI vehicle. One of the agents opens the back door while the other agent tucks Will Graham’s head and pushes him into the back seat and shuts the door.

FBI agents are removing evidence boxes from his home. Two animal handlers are leading the dogs out of the house on leashes. Winston breaks free and runs toward Will Graham. A handler grabs Winston’s collar and drags him away towards the dog van. Winston barks and whines, looking back at Will Graham.

Will Graham watches in anguish as Winston is dragged off. As the S.U.V. he’s in pulls away from his home, he sees Jack Crawford and Hannibal Lecter. Inside Will Graham’s house behind them, flashbulbs go off as his living room is turned into a crime scene.

INT. F.B.I. S.U.V. - DAY 1

Being driven away, Will Graham leans his head against the window, his home and dogs and life receding into the distance.

INT. B.A.U. - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - DAY 1

In a t-shirt and boxers, Will Graham stands in the brightly-lit, sterile space on a white paper mat, staring straight ahead. He hands his pants to Jimmy Price, who bags them. His shirt and his right and left shoes are stacked on a nearby table in three separate, appropriately labelled evidence bags. His eyeglasses and watch are also bagged and tagged. Jimmy Price holds Will Graham’s khakis with one gloved-hand and digs through the pockets with another. Zeller logs the evidence next to an operational video camera.

It is painfully awkward for them all. Will Graham stares in silence.

Jimmy Price: "Right rear pocket. One leather wallet containing 17 dollars cash."

Brian Zeller: "Right rear pocket. One leather wallet 17 dollars cash."

Jimmy Price dips a hand into another pants pocket and removes keys.

Jimmy Price: "Front left pocket. Key ring. Two keys. House and car."

Brian Zeller: "Front left pocket. Key ring. Two keys. House and car."

Jimmy Price checks the other pocket and finds a pocket knife.

Jimmy Price: "Front right pocket. Folding knife."

He handles the small folded knife carefully, examining the knife handle, a smudged fingerprint in what might be blood.

Brian Zeller: "Front right pocket. Folding knife."

Zeller grabs a new evidence bag and drops the knife inside. Red falling particles come into focus, falling through the air like snow.

INT. B.A.U. - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - LATER

Will Graham stands in his underwear alone with Beverly Katz, who is scraping under his nails with a small tool. A dull red residue falls onto the white paper. They’ve both seen it often enough to know what it is. Blood.

The file slides under his nail and the red flakes fall onto the paper.

Will Graham watches the dusting of blood fall from under his nail. Beverly Katz is looking at Will Graham, struggling with the situation.

Beverly Katz: "I can’t do the silent treatment. I can’t pretend I don’t know you and I can’t pretend we don’t both know what I’m finding under your nails."

Will Graham remains silent, in numb shock.

Beverly Katz: "You called me once because you didn’t trust yourself to know what was real. This blood is real, Will."

Will Graham: "I know."

Beverly Katz: "Do you know how it got there?"

Will Graham: "Not with certainty, no."

Beverly Katz: "Certainty comes from the evidence. I didn’t want to find any evidence on you. I wanted to be certain about who you are. But you can’t even be certain about yourself."

Will Graham: "Not anymore."

Beverly Katz: "If you weren’t certain about yourself, then you shouldn’t have been here. This is the FBI."

Will Graham: "I thought I would get better."

Beverly Katz: "How long have you been lying about what’s going on with you?"

Will Graham: "I wasn’t lying --"

Beverly Katz: "You knew your state of mind. You should have recused yourself from any investigation. You were irresponsible and a girl is dead."

Beverly Katz steps back from him, angry.

Beverly Katz: "However far over the edge you were leaning, I was hoping that you wouldn’t fall."

Will Graham looks at her, hating this, not wanting to face it.

Beverly Katz: "You always said all you do is interpret the evidence. So do it, Will. Interpret the evidence."

Will Graham: "According to the evidence..."

Will Graham fights what he wants versus what he thinks. Finally, a whispered, horrible realization.

Will Graham: "I killed Abigail Hobbs."

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - JACK CRAWFORD’S OFFICE - DAY 1

Alana Bloom's horror grows as she listens to Jack Crawford.

Jack Crawford: "We analyzed the tissue. It matched Abigail Hobbs. It was her ear. Her blood was under Will’s fingernails. Scratches on his arms look like defensive wounds. She fought back --"

Alana Bloom: "Shut up."

Alana Bloom is struggling with this information, tears welling. She pushes them back. Finally she can’t hear another word.

Alana Bloom: "Just stop talking."

It comes out more as a plea as opposed to anything hostile. A long beat of silence, both of them stressed, neither of them above succumbing to the pressure of it.

Alana Bloom: "“He won’t. Get too close.” You said you would cover him. You could see he was breaking."

Jack Crawford: "Yes, I could. And I kept pushing him because he was saving lives."

Alana Bloom: "Not Abigail Hobbs’ life."

Jack Crawford: "Look me in the eye and tell me you couldn’t see he was breaking."

Alana Bloom: "Of course I could see it. I told you not to put him out there."

Jack Crawford: "Every decision I made about Will Graham’s mental health was under the advisement of a respected psychiatrist, who you recommended."

Alana Bloom: "Hannibal had to know. He had to see something was wrong."

Jack Crawford: "Not until it was too late. Just like the rest of us. Hannibal said Will was exhibiting signs of dementia."

Alana Bloom: "Dementia isn’t a disease, it’s a symptom of disease. We have to find out what’s causing it and treat it."

Jack Crawford: "The concern is that there may not be anything to treat. Will had a brain scan. They found nothing."

Alana Bloom: "This started with Garret Jacob Hobbs."

Jack Crawford: "Maybe Will did what Garret Jacob Hobbs couldn’t do. Kill his daughter."

Alana Bloom: "Abigail’s blood is on all of us. And so is Will’s."

EXT. FBI PARKING LOT - ALANA BLOOM’S CAR - DAY 1

A muffled scream is heard. Inside her car, Alana Bloom grips the steering wheel with white knuckles as she lets out her frustration and anger and sadness.

INT. B.A.U. - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY 1

Will Graham sits at a table in his jump suit. Alana Bloom enters. She can’t hide her distress at seeing him this way. And he can’t hide his relief at seeing her walk through the door.

Will Graham: "Hi."

Alana Bloom: "Hi."

Will Graham: "You’re flushed. You been yelling?"

Alana Bloom: "Screaming is more like it."

Will Graham: "I could use a good scream. I can feel one. Perched under my chin."

Alana Bloom: "Let it out."

Will Graham: "I’m afraid if I started, I... wouldn’t be able to stop. I’m surprised Jack let you in here. Given my romantic overtures."

Alana Bloom: "Jack doesn’t know about your romantic overtures. Didn’t know."

Alana Bloom self-consciously glances at the two-way mirror. Behind it, Jack Crawford shakes his head and pinches the bridge of his nose.

Back in the interrogation room, Alana Bloom looks at Will Graham, who averts his eyes.

Will Graham: "Guess you dodged a bullet with me."

Alana Bloom: "I don’t feel like I dodged a bullet. I feel wounded."

He slides his hand out, but catches himself and withdraws. Will Graham glances self-consciously at the two-way mirror.

Alana Bloom: "Been in touch with Animal Services. I’m going to pick up your dogs in a couple of hours. I’ll bring them back home with me and take care of them until... whenever."

Will Graham: "Are you sure? Whenever could be a long time from now."

Alana Bloom: "I’ll take care of them until then."

Will Graham: "Thank you."

Alana Bloom: "We have to do some tests. They’ll be the standard psychopathology tests. Thematic Apperception. Minnesota Multiphasic."

Will Graham: "Suppose you’re going to ask me to draw a clock while you’re at it."

Alana Bloom: "Hannibal ask you to draw a clock?"

Will Graham: "Said it was an exercise to help ground me in a present moment. A handle to reality to hold onto."

Alana Bloom: "Was the clock normal?"

Will Graham: "Would I be here if it wasn’t?"

Now Alana Bloom’s interest is raised. She pulls out pen and paper and slides it across the table.

Alana Bloom: "Draw me a clock."

Will Graham takes the pen and paper and starts to draw. From his perspective, he draws a normal clock. But Alana Bloom watches in dawning horror as Will Graham draws a clock with all of the numbers and hands stacked on one side, Dali-esque. Just like he did before with Hannibal Lecter. Will Graham turns the picture and slides it to her.

Will Graham: "See. Just a normal clock. Telling the time isn’t my problem."

Alana Bloom looks at Will Graham with growing dread.

Alana Bloom: "It’s the least of your problems."

The truth of that weighs on them both.

EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - DAY 1

A Minnesota patrol car pulls up to the house.

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - DAY 1

The view tracks along the dark, empty hallway towards where light shines through from a window by the door. The front door opens to reveal two local cops, guns at the ready.

They make their way down the hall. One tries the light switch but the power is dead. They move to the kitchen doorway.

They flash their flashlights, scanning the room. The beams pick up splashes and sprays of blood, slick black in the shuttered gloom, turning red in the beams. The floor is covered in a pool of blood. The two cops hold on the charnel scene and stare.

EXT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - DAY 1

A time-lapse shows the passing of the day.

INT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - DAY 1

Bedelia sits quietly with Hannibal Lecter, who stares into the middle-distance. Neither of them say a word as the view slowly pushes in on Hannibal Lecter to see his eyes brim with tears.

Hannibal Lecter: "Despite the overwhelming evidence, I still find myself searching for ways Abigail could still be alive."

Bedelia: "Grieving is an individual process with a universal goal. The truest examination of the meaning of life and the meaning of its end."

Hannibal Lecter: "I know what life means."

She watches Hannibal Lecter, silently, never pushing him to speak.

Hannibal Lecter: "We’ve existed for 100,000 years. In that time 100 billion human lives have had beginnings and endings."

Bedelia: "100,000 lives haven’t impacted yours. Clearly Abigail Hobbs’ life has and that seems to surprise you."

He can’t deny it; it weighs on him.

Hannibal Lecter: "I never considered having a child. But after meeting Abigail, I understood the appeal. The opportunity to guide and support, and in many ways, direct a life."

Bedelia: "You were having influence on her?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I was hoping I was."

Bedelia: "Young people are supposed to be the lenses through which we see ourselves living beyond this life."

Hannibal Lecter considers that, not necessarily agreeing.

Hannibal Lecter: "I think of my earliest memory and project forward to what I imagine will be my death. I never think about living beyond that span of time. Except by reputation."

Bedelia: "Even after this loss?"

Hannibal Lecter: "More so after this loss."

Bedelia: "Will Graham is a loss, too. You have to grieve him as a loss."

Hannibal Lecter: "I haven’t given up on Will."

Bedelia: "If he is found guilty of killing Abigail Hobbs..."

Hannibal Lecter: "When. Let’s be honest."

Bedelia: "I don’t recommend you participate in any rehabilitation effort."

Hannibal Lecter remains thoughtful a moment.

Hannibal Lecter: "I was so confident in my ability to help Will, to solve him..."

Bedelia: "To save him."

Hannibal Lecter: "Trying to save him, I lost Abigail. It’s hard to accept that I could fail them both so profoundly."

INT. B.A.U. - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - DAY 1

An out-of-focus gleam sharpens to become the copperish barb of a fishing lure, held in a small vice. Black thread unwraps, loosening the materials beneath. A tiny feather floats free. A bright coil of fabric springs free and is tweezed away.

The view moves around the vice to a bigger, gaudier lure. Tweezers gently lift out the tiny gold clasp of an earring, sliding it along the hook’s length. Another lure, a line of gold thread slowly unravelling. Finally, a display of the de-constructed lures on a white sheet of paper.

Jack Crawford and Alana Bloom are with Zeller, Price, and Katz.

Jack Crawford: "Will was a fisherman. He tied all of his own lures."

Jimmy Price: "Most anglers use feathers, twine, fur, bits of shell. Designing their flies to catch specific fish."

Beverly Katz displays a lure.

Beverly Katz: "This one caught my eye. I noticed the hair color. Took me a few to accept what I was seeing. I ran a chem-set to confirm the connection."

Alana Bloom: "What connection?"

Beverly Katz: "Four of the lures are made from materials including human remains."

Alana Bloom is stunned. Jack Crawford has heard many strange things in his career, but this requires a beat to process.

Jimmy Price: "We have DNA matches on all of them."

As Beverly Katz explains, she displays her grisly discoveries.

Beverly Katz: "This one is Cassie Boyle. Bits of bone fragments and pieces of lung. Marissa Schuur. Antler velvet, a fingernail, wound with her hair. Doctor Sutcliffe. Crushed teeth, soft tissue from inside his mouth, bound with cartilage from his jaw."

Jack Crawford: "All victims of the Copy Cat?"

Jimmy Price: "Other lure was made with hair and fiber matched to Georgia Madchen."

Brian Zeller: "He kept trophies from his victims."

Jack Crawford: "Trophies. Now Will Graham is a serial killer taking trophies?"

Alana Bloom: "Something is wrong with Will, physically, neurologically. He’s not a serial killer."

Brian Zeller: "Abigail’s just his latest victim. Must’ve been working together. She was probably going to expose him."

Jimmy Price and Beverly Katz glare at him, but he is unrepentant.

Brian Zeller: "We let the fox into the chicken coop. And he played us all."

INT. B.A.U. - CORRIDOR - DAY 1

Jack Crawford walks grimly down the corridor.

INT. B.A.U. - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY 1

Will Graham sits alone. A muffled clicking sound can be heard, faint, but getting louder. Will Graham looks to the two-way mirror. The muffled hoof steps draw closer and closer. Will Graham stands from the table and crosses to the mirror, cupping his hands to see through it.

Nothing. Just the dark reflection of his eyes. Then a silhouette rises from the darkness behind the mirror, as if made from it. The Antlered Man, Will Graham’s personal Devil.

As Will Graham shudders with horror, he finds himself sitting back at the table, staring absently at the two-way mirror. He realizes not only did he not get up and cross to the mirror because of his shackles, but now Jack Crawford is sitting opposite him, his face slack with worry.

A tiny startle from Will Graham. He was off in a nightmare when Jack Crawford walked into the room.

Jack Crawford: "You’re sick, Will."

Will Graham: "I wasn’t consistent with taking my antibiotics. My fever came back."

Jack Crawford: "We’re going to move you to a secure medical ward where we will find out what’s wrong with you. And get you the treatment you need."

Will Graham: "And then what? Baltimore State Hospital for the Criminally Insane? Have Chilton fumbling at my head?"

Jack Crawford analyzes Will Graham, hoping for any confirmation of something.

Jack Crawford: "This job doesn’t generally lend itself to optimism. I desperately want to be optimistic about an alternative to what every fiber of evidence is telling me you did."

Will Graham: "I can’t confess to something I don’t remember."

Jack Crawford: "Question is, how much more is there that you don’t remember? We found your fishing lures."

Will Graham: "I should hope so. They were on my desk next to the front door."

Jack Crawford: "We found human remains in the materials you used to make them. Cassie Boyle. Marissa Schuur. Donald Sutcliffe. Georgia Madchen."

Will Graham’s mind reels. He shakes his head, unable to accept what Jack Crawford is telling him.

Will Graham: "No. I wasn’t sick when Cassie Boyle was murdered. I wasn’t sick when Marissa Schuur was murdered."

Jack Crawford: "That’s not an argument you want to be making right now. Not to me."

Will Graham: "Because then I’d be a psychopath."

Jack Crawford: "My biggest fear is learning you knew what you were doing all along."

Will Graham: "Don’t have to be afraid of that, Jack. But there is something you should be afraid of and that’s whoever is doing this to me."

Jack Crawford: "Someone is doing this to you? Is that what this is? A set up?"

Will Graham: "They’ll be close to you. It could be someone here. Working with you. They know the cases. They know forensics. They know I’m unstable."

Jack Crawford: "Do you hear how paranoid you sound?"

Will Graham allows himself a sad smile, not believing what he’s about to say, but also not knowing what to believe.

Will Graham: "Or it could just be you. Then I’m pretty much screwed, aren’t I?"

EXT. F.B.I. - DAY 1

Will Graham, now in irons, is being shuffle-walked to an ambulance by a paramedic and a guard. Jack Crawford looks on, despairing. Will Graham looks out at Jack Crawford as he is stepped up into the ambulance. They hold their look until the doors slam closed.

INT. AMBULANCE - DAY 1

The ambulance is moving. Will Graham is sitting back on the gurney, his cuffs around the gurney rail and fastened.

Will Graham watches the solitary guard opposite him. He glances away with trepidation; he knows what he has to do, but doesn’t want to do it. He steels himself.

Will Graham looks down, takes a deep breath, and cracks his thumbs out of joint. A horrible shriek and groan of pain as he slides his broken hand from the cuff in one move. The guard looks up. Will Graham turns on him with a mixture of malice, pain, and regret, and lunges.

EXT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY 1

A time-lapse shows the passing day.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY 1

Hannibal Lecter stands with Jack Crawford and Alana Bloom, mid-conversation.

Jack Crawford: "Broke his thumb getting out of the restraints. Disarmed his guard, threw him and the driver out of the vehicle. They found the ambulance in an alley in Dumfries. These are not the actions of an innocent man."

Alana Bloom: "They’re the actions of a man who is impaired. I had Will draw a clock to test for cognitive dysfunction."

She places Will Graham’s Dali-esque drawing of a clock on the desk. Hannibal Lecter reacts, very concerned.

Hannibal Lecter: "That’s extreme."

He reaches for his notebook and opens it, revealing the drawing Will Graham made in his office weeks ago.

Hannibal Lecter: "This is the clock Will drew for me two weeks ago. It’s normal."

Alana Bloom: "What disease progresses gradually but plateaus for lengths of time?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Will has periods of clarity. We’ve seen him lucid and aware one moment and then the next moment he’s not."

Alana Bloom: "Could be some form of encephalitis."

Hannibal Lecter: "Autoimmune encephalitis. Body’s immune system attacks the brain as if it is itself an infection."

Alana Bloom: "It’s hard to diagnose. There are no tumors. No lesions. Wouldn’t show up on a brain scan unless you knew you were looking for it."

Jack Crawford puts the train back on the tracks.

Jack Crawford: "Just tell me if he could’ve killed five people and not known about it."

Neither Alana Bloom nor Hannibal Lecter can bring themselves to answer.

Hannibal Lecter: "It’s unlikely."

Jack Crawford: "Doesn’t feel like dementia. Feels like an intelligent psychopath. This killer called the Hobbs house, warned Abigail’s father. Hobbs then hung up the phone, killed his wife and cut his daughter’s throat."

Hannibal Lecter: "I was with Will that entire time."

Jack Crawford: "Did he have an opportunity to make a phone call?"

Hannibal Lecter: "At the construction site. Before we went to interview Garret Jacob Hobbs. Will was in the office while I was outside loading the car with files, but he was only in there a minute or two."

Jack Crawford: "Dumb luck and bad bookkeeping. It’s how Will said he caught Hobbs. How would you say he caught Hobbs?"

He glances at Alana Bloom, as if to prepare her for what’s coming.

Hannibal Lecter: "We were looking through the files and it was as if Will plucked his name out of a hat, based on little more than an incomplete address."

Alana Bloom: "That’s what Will does. He makes those kinds of leaps."

Jack Crawford: "Allow me to play the devil, Dr. Bloom. This clock test. Would Will Graham know how to fake it?"

After a long moment, Alana Bloom finally answers.

Alana Bloom: "Yes."

INT. ALANA BLOOM’S HOUSE - DAY

The key turns in the lock, and the front door opens just a crack. Several snouts poke their way inside. Alana Bloom comes through the door after Will Graham's dogs, holding them all on two group leashes. The dogs pull.

Alana Bloom: "Tssst."

The dogs focus.

Alana Bloom: "Sit."

The dogs obey. Except for one.

Alana Bloom: "Everyone."

The final dog sits. Alana Bloom allows herself a small, sad smile as she unfastens each of their collars from the lead.

Alana Bloom: "Okay."

She gives them each a small treat. Alana Bloom shrugs off her coat and drops her bag on the counter as the pack of dogs mill. She crosses to the refrigerator, grabs a beer, and pops the cap. The dogs follow her. She takes a deep sip and sighs, resting the cold bottle against her forehead. She’s exhausted.

Just as she’s noticed the dogs have all trailed away...

Will Graham’s Voice: "Alana."

Alana Bloom startles, dropping her bottle of beer. Will Graham is now standing in the room with her, the dogs milling about, sniffing and greeting him with wagging tails.

Will Graham: "Please don’t scream."

Alana Bloom: "Wasn’t going to but you saying that sort of makes me think I should."

Will Graham: "I’ll stand over here if it makes you feel any safer."

Alana Bloom: "It doesn’t. You can’t be here, Will. I can’t harbor you."

Will Graham: "I know. Just got a little confused. I needed to get my bearings. It’s good to see the dogs. Thought I wasn’t going to see them again."

Alana Bloom: "You have to go to a doctor. What’s happening to you can be treated. This disease. It’s attacking the way you think. Everything you’re feeling. The doubt, the confusion. It can all go away. If you let it."

Will Graham: "If I don’t find out who is doing this to me, I’ll be going away. They already think I did it. They’ll diagnose me with something and they’ll keep diagnosing me and they’ll keep being wrong."

Alana Bloom: "I don’t know how to help you."

Will Graham: "I’m not a killer."

She picks up her car keys from the counter and offers them.

Alana Bloom: "Take my car. It’s parked on the street. But please, Will, you’ve got to go to a hospital."

Will Graham takes the car keys, sad and disappointed. He considers them a moment, then hands them back to Alana Bloom.

Will Graham: "You were pretty slick about that. You just unlocked your car doors, didn’t you? Flashed the lights? They’ll be waiting for me outside."

Alana Bloom: "If there was somebody out there, wouldn’t they already be coming through the door?"

Will Graham: "No, they wouldn’t. Because they know I could kill you before they got up those stairs."

The reality of that hangs in the air.

Will Graham: "Goodbye, Alana."

He quietly moves toward the back door, disappearing down the hall. Alana Bloom waits there a moment, afraid to move. She realizes she stopped breathing and takes a jagged breath.

EXT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

A time-lapse shows the day passing.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal Lecter works at his desk in his darkened office.

Hannibal Lecter: "Hello, Will. How are you feeling?"

Will Graham is up on the landing, tucked in the corner.

Will Graham: "Self aware."

Hannibal Lecter: "You frightened Dr. Bloom."

Will Graham: "She’s confused about who I am, which I can relate to. Are you confused about who I am?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m not confused. I’m skeptical. Meaning I’m willing to change my mind should the evidence change."

Will Graham: "Do you believe I killed Abigail?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I believe it’s entirely possible, if not nearly indisputable based on how you discovered her ear."

Will Graham: "If it was just Abigail, I would have believed. I would have believed I got so far inside Hobbs’ head, I couldn’t get out."

Hannibal Lecter: "But it wasn’t just Abigail."

Will Graham: "I know who I am."

Hannibal Lecter: "All sense of who you are has been distorted by your illness. You know who you are in this moment. That isn’t always the case."

Will Graham: "I didn’t kill any of them. Someone is making sure no one believes me."

Hannibal Lecter sighs, debating how to best help his friend.

Hannibal Lecter: "If we’re to prove you didn’t commit these murders, perhaps we should consider how you could have. And then disprove that."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - THERAPY - LATER

Will Graham sits opposite Hannibal Lecter, a session like any other save for the fact that Will Graham is wearing a prison jumpsuit.

Hannibal Lecter: "If you are this killer, that identity runs through these events like a thread through pearls. Cassie Boyle would have been your first victim. You said her crime scene was practically gift wrapped."

The crime scene appears in the darkened shadows of the room as if in the recesses of Will Graham’s mind: Cassie Boyle mounted on the stag head, all of it painted black.

Will Graham: "It told me everything I needed to know to catch Garret Jacob Hobbs."

As Hannibal Lecter speaks, Will Graham can see out of the corner of his eye, movement near the crime scene, a separate and distinct dark shape with antlers, prowling near Cassie Boyle’s body.

Hannibal Lecter: "You’d seen one of Hobbs’ victims, you knew how he killed. You may have been exploring how he killed to better understand who he was."

Will Graham: "I wasn’t in Minnesota when Cassie Boyle was murdered."

Hannibal Lecter: "She disappeared on a Saturday. Found her on a Monday. You would’ve had the weekend to do your work."

Will Graham: "I know I didn’t kill her."

Hannibal Lecter: "How do you know?"

Will Graham’s mind spins for an answer. Hannibal Lecter doesn’t allow him to articulate it, continuing to draw a psychological picture as another crime scene appears in the room: Marissa Schuur mounted on antlers, all of it painted black.

Hannibal Lecter: "What did you think when you first met Marissa Schuur? How much like Abigail she was? Same height, same weight, same hair color, same age."

Will Graham: "How could I resist?"

The black antlers around Marissa Schuur move, revealing the inhuman silhouette of the dark shape, only now it becomes clear it is the Man-Stag that haunted Will Graham’s nightmare.

Hannibal Lecter: "So much like his daughter, you may have wondered why Garret Jacob Hobbs didn’t kill her himself."

Will Graham fights the confusion, sickened by it. Another crime scene appears behind Hannibal Lecter’s desk: Dr. Sutcliffe nearly decapitated at the jaw, painted black.

Hannibal Lecter: "Dr. Sutcliffe wasn’t killed how Garret Jacob Hobbs killed. He was murdered how you imagined yourself murdering a woman only days before."

Will Graham: "How Georgia Madchen killed. She said she dreamt I killed Sutcliffe. But she couldn’t see my face. And then she was murdered."

Hannibal Lecter: "You catch these killers, Will, by getting into their heads, but you also let them into yours."

Black antlers rise in the darkness behind Hannibal Lecter, the Man-Stag taking shape from the shadow. It has Hannibal Lecter’s face. Will Graham winces at the image in his head, shaking it off.

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m trying to help you, Will."

Will Graham: "Then take me back to Minnesota. I want to see where Abigail died."

INT. HANNIBAL’S CAR - NIGHT 1

Hannibal Lecter drives, windshield wipers thumping rhythmically as rain rolls off in sheets. He glances over at Will Graham, who dozes fitfully in the passenger seat.

EXT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - EARLY MORNING 2

A time-lapse shows the morning arriving.

INT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - MORNING 2

Jack Crawford and Alana Bloom are questioning Bedelia.

Jack Crawford: "You had any contact with Hannibal Lecter in the last 24 hours?"

Bedelia: "Is something wrong?"

Jack Crawford: "I’m on my way to Minnesota. I believe Will Graham has taken Hannibal Lecter there. Or Hannibal Lecter has taken Will Graham."

Bedelia: "Implying Hannibal went willingly with an escaped murder suspect?"

Jack Crawford: "Would Dr. Lecter put himself in danger to help Will?"

Bedelia stares at Jack Crawford, strange to hear the allegation aloud.

Jack Crawford: "We’re not suspecting Hannibal of doing anything criminal."

Alana Bloom: "Hannibal knows Will is sick. If he had any control of the situation, he would get him to a hospital."

Bedelia: "I could imagine Hannibal taking Mr. Graham to Minnesota if he thought Abigail Hobbs was still alive."

Alana Bloom: "We haven’t found her body. Neither of them can accept Abigail is dead. Will because he can’t accept he’s killed her and Hannibal because he can’t accept Will could."

Bedelia: "Or he’s trying to prove Will could."

Alana Bloom: "Will could kill Hannibal and not even know he was doing it."

Bedelia: "If anyone could’ve helped Will Graham, it would’ve been Hannibal. In fact, he may still be trying."

Jack Crawford eyes Bedelia, still unsettled about the situation. Alana Bloom can see his distress.

EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - DAY 2

Hannibal Lecter’s Bentley pulls into the driveway. Hannibal Lecter is behind the wheel, Will Graham in the passenger seat. They get out of the car and head into the house. The purr of the Bentley’s engine continues to haunt Will Graham.

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - FOYER - DAY 2

Will Graham enters. He walks cautiously down the hall. Hannibal Lecter is no longer behind him. He walks into the kitchen.

It is breakfast time. Louise Hobbs is cooking eggs, Garret Jacob Hobbs helping her prep. Abigail Hobbs sets the table. It’s the moment before everything in Abigail Hobbs’ life changed. Will Graham stands in the room, watching the scene.

The phone rings. It startles Will Graham. A sense of dread as Abigail Hobbs crosses to the phone and answers it.

Abigail Hobbs: "Hello? Just a second. Dad, it’s for you."

Garret Jacob Hobbs: "Who is it?"

Abigail Hobbs: "Caller i.d. said it was blocked."

She hands her father the phone and as he raises it to his ear, Garret Jacob Hobbs is now Will Graham. Will Graham puts the receiver to his ear. The pervasive purr of Hannibal Lecter’s Bentley engine suddenly stops.

Will Graham: "Hello?"

Hannibal’s Voice: "Will?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

Hannibal’s Voice: "We’re here --"

He opens his eyes.

INT. HANNIBAL’S CAR - NIGHT 2

Hannibal Lecter sits in the driver’s seat; the car is cooling and pinging. Will Graham takes a deep breath, heaves a sigh, and climbs out of the car.

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - BASEMENT - NIGHT 2

The sliding glass door slowly rolls open and Will Graham and Hannibal Lecter enter. They move cautiously through the room. Will Graham turns and sees Hannibal Lecter standing behind him. There is a familiarity to their placement.

In a flash, he remembers being in this same spot, but with Alana Bloom and Abigail Hobbs also present. He remembers Abigail Hobbs asking them to re-enact the crime, casting Hannibal Lecter as the man on the phone.

Realization dawning, Will Graham dares to stare at Hannibal Lecter only briefly before averting his eyes and turning away.

Will Graham: "Are we going to re-enact the crime?"

Hannibal Lecter: "If it would help you."

Will Graham: "It may come to that."

Will Graham shrinks into the shadows of the house. Hannibal Lecter follows.

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - FOYER - NIGHT 2

The house is cold. Will Graham and Hannibal Lecter climb the stairs to the main floor. Will Graham pauses, bracing himself, as he moves into the kitchen.

The kitchen is empty. Blood stains are everywhere. A processed crime scene. Forensic markers.

Will Graham stares. He steps into the room, bowing his head, his face crumpled with emotion. He takes a breath and then looks up again.

Hannibal Lecter: "It’s as if Abigail was supposed to die in this kitchen. Nothing we did was able to change that."

Hannibal Lecter is as horrified by the room as Will Graham, feigning as though he is seeing it for the first time. Will Graham looks at the arterial spray on the wall, deeply saddened.

Will Graham: "Her throat was cut. She lost great gouts of blood and there’s an unmistakable arterial spray --"

He stops himself, unable to speak for a moment.

Hannibal Lecter: "They haven’t found her body."

Will Graham: "Just the one piece."

Hannibal Lecter: "If you were in Garret Jacob Hobbs’ frame of mind when you killed her, they may never find her body."

Will Graham: "Cause I honored every part of her?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Perhaps you didn’t come here looking for a killer. Perhaps you came here to find yourself. You killed a man in this very room."

Will Graham: "I stared at Hobbs and the space opposite me assumed the shape of a man filled with dark and swarming flies. And then I scattered them."

Hannibal Lecter: "At a time when other men first see and fear their isolation, yours has become understandable to you. You are alone because you are unique."

Will Graham: "I’m as alone as you are."

Hannibal Lecter: "If you followed the urges you kept down for so long, cultivated them as the inspirations they are, you’d become someone other than yourself."

Will Graham: "I know who I am. I’m not so sure I know who you are anymore. But I am certain one of us killed Abigail."

Will Graham raises his gun and steadies it at Hannibal Lecter.

Hannibal Lecter: "Are you a killer, Will? You. Right now. This man in front of me. Is this who you really are?"

Will Graham: "You called here that morning. Abigail knew. You kept her secrets until she found out some of yours."

Hannibal Lecter eyes the gun in Will Graham’s hand.

Hannibal Lecter: "You said it felt good to kill Garret Jacob Hobbs, Will. Would it feel good to kill me now?"

Will Graham: "Garret Jacob Hobbs was a murderer. Are you a murderer, Dr. Lecter?"

Hannibal Lecter: "What reason would I have?"

Will Graham: "You have no traceable motive, which is why you were so hard to see. You were just curious what I would do. Someone like me. Someone who thinks how I think. Wind him up and watch him go. Apparently, Dr. Lecter, this is how I go."

Betrayed and confused, Will Graham’s finger tenses on the trigger.

Jack Crawford enters, gun drawn, sees Will Graham is preparing to shoot Hannibal Lecter, and in a terrible re-enactment, shoots Will Graham.

BLAM!

A bullet slams into Will Graham’s shoulder and he is knocked against the counter, sliding down it. Right where Garret Jacob Hobbs died. Blood flecks Hannibal Lecter’s face and shirt.

Jack Crawford comes forward, still holding his smoking weapon. He kicks the gun from Will Graham’s loose fingers and looks down at the bleeding Will Graham with anguish.

Will Graham looks up at Jack Crawford and Hannibal Lecter. Will Graham holds Jack Crawford’s gaze.

Will Graham: "See? See?"

From Will Graham’s perspective, his vision begins to dim and lose focus. As it does, Hannibal Lecter blurs and shifts into the blackened Man-Stag.

EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - NIGHT 2

Will Graham is on a gurney, being moved to an ambulance by paramedics. Jack Crawford moves behind it, concerned. They pass Hannibal Lecter, who watches Will Graham being put in the ambulance. Flecks of blood are still on his face. The gurney is rushed into the ambulance and the doors are pulled closed on Jack Crawford.

The ambulance pulls away, lights flashing. Jack Crawford is left to watch it go, and then he turns to Hannibal Lecter. Their eyes meet.

INT. HOSPITAL - ER - NIGHT 2

An ER team works on Will Graham. His clothes have been pulled away. A doctor is cleaning the bullet wound in his shoulder. The wound is ugly and red.

A blood bag goes up on a stand. A needle is slid into the crook of Will Graham’s elbow. Monitoring machines start to bleep. A bloom of blood in the barrel of an I/V needle as Will Graham is injected with drugs. Another I/V bag of antibiotics is slid into his other arm.

Finally, Will Graham sleeps in a hospital bed, unconscious, wired up to drips and monitors, machines working on his behalf.

INT. HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR - DAY 3

Jack Crawford comes down the hospital corridor, in sharp focus, his surroundings blurring behind him.

INT. HOSPITAL - WILL GRAHAM’S ROOM - DAY 3

Jack Crawford enters Will Graham’s room. Will Graham is unconscious in the bed. Two chairs are pulled up beside it. Hannibal Lecter sits in one, eyes on Will Graham. He looks up as Jack Crawford enters. Jack Crawford takes the other seat.

Hannibal Lecter: "Right hemisphere of his brain was inflamed. Been placed in an induced sleep. He’s being treated with antiviral and steroid therapies."

Jack Crawford: "Is he responding?"

Hannibal Lecter: "More or less. He’s expected to make a substantial recovery. Over time."

Jack Crawford: "Would you have gone to Minnesota if he didn’t have a gun on you?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I would have wanted to. Even now I feel that I’ve failed to satisfy my obligation to Will."

Jack Crawford: "Any regrets?"

Hannibal Lecter: "More than I would care to admit. Psychiatrists can have divided loyalties. We have to protect our patients from becoming victims of the pressures we face to help them."

Jack Crawford: "Will Graham isn’t your victim."

Hannibal Lecter: "Nor is he yours."

Jack Crawford considers that, not so sure it’s the case.

Jack Crawford: "In my life, I’ve seen some hideous and offhanded ways in which the world breaks people. This is worse than anything I’ve seen on the autopsy scales. What I experienced with Will Graham has caused in me a small tectonic shift. I am not the same man I was yesterday."

Hannibal Lecter: "No one in this room is."

Hannibal Lecter studies Jack Crawford’s regret as the view tracks out, through the door, into the corridor to reveal two FBI agents standing guard on either side.

EXT. BEDELIA’S HOME OFFICE - NIGHT 3

Bedelia opens the door, revealing Hannibal Lecter holding a platter of food under a beautiful glass dome.

Hannibal Lecter: "Good evening."

Bedelia: "Hello, Hannibal. Please come in."

INT. BEDELIA’S HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT 3

A simple, elegant, well-appointed table with place settings for two. Bedelia pours Hannibal Lecter a glass of wine, then herself. Hannibal Lecter sets a plate of magnificent food in front of Bedelia as she pulls up her chair to the table.

Hannibal Lecter: "Tête de Veau en Sauce Verte."

Bedelia: "Smells like a bonfire."

Hannibal Lecter: "I smoked the veal on a pyre of dry hay. Imparts a unique smoldering flavor to the meat and to the room."

Bedelia: "This is an unexpected treat."

Hannibal Lecter: "Thank you for indulging me."

Bedelia: "You seemed like you needed to talk."

Hannibal Lecter: "And since you refuse invitations to my dinner table, this is the only way I could cook for you."

Bedelia: "What’s on your mind, Hannibal?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m going to see Will tomorrow."

She stares at him a moment, then through him.

Bedelia: "As a patient or as a friend?"

Hannibal Lecter: "As a farewell. Of sorts. Who I knew Will to be was an illusion."

Bedelia: "He’s created his own version of reality to help him make sense of what he saw and heard and felt."

Hannibal Lecter: "And did."

Bedelia: "Thought Mr. Graham would finally be the patient who cost you your life."

Hannibal Lecter: "He didn’t cost me my life. He cost Abigail Hobbs hers. Your veal is getting cold."

Bedelia realizes she hasn’t taken a bite and cuts into her meat.

Bedelia: "It’s a controversial dish. Veal."

She takes a bite, savoring it.

Bedelia: "Mmmm."

Hannibal Lecter: "Those who denounce veal often cite the young age at which veal are killed, when they are in fact older than many pigs going to slaughter."

Bedelia considers that, then brings the subject back.

Bedelia: "You have to be careful, Hannibal. They started to see your pattern."

Hannibal Lecter: "What pattern would that be?"

Bedelia: "You form relationships with patients that are conducive to violence. That pattern."

Hannibal Lecter goes still.

Bedelia: "Under scrutiny, Jack Crawford’s beliefs about you could unravel."

Hannibal Lecter: "Tell me, Dr. Du Maurier, have your beliefs about me begun to unravel?"

Hannibal Lecter takes a bite of his veal and waits for her answer.

EXT. B.S.H.C.I. - DAY 4

A time-lapse of the Baltimore State Hospital for the Criminally Insane.

INT. B.S.H.C.I. - CELL BLOCK - DAY 4

The cave-like cell on the high security block. The security gate opens and Hannibal Lecter steps inside. He stops and takes in the surroundings, the smells. He straightens his tie. Hannibal Lecter walks down the block, aware of the inmates.

His view continues down the corridor until it finds the last cell on the block, revealing Will Graham inside. He wears a B.S.H.C.I. jumpsuit. His cell is bare except for a bed and table.

They appraise each other through the safety barrier.

Hannibal Lecter: "Hello, Will."

Will Graham: "Dr. Lecter."