A spoon full of sauce is followed by a garnish on a terrine of foie gras.

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Jack Crawford and his beautiful wife Bella Crawford sit at Hannibal Lecter's table, their host preparing the next course. Bella watches her husband take a drink of his wine, savoring the flavor. He glances up, catching her looking, and when he does, his smile is genuine, her smile is forced. Hannibal Lecter enters carrying individual terrines of foie gras.

Hannibal Lecter: "A masterpiece foie gras Au torchon with a late harvest Vidal sauce and dry and fresh figs. Mrs. Crawford, your husband introduced you as Bella. Are you an Isabelle or an Annabelle?"

Bella Crawford: "I’m a Phyllis. But Jack only calls me Phyllis when we disagree."

Hannibal Lecter: "So named Bella for your beauty?"

Jack Crawford: "We were both stationed in Italy. I was Army. She was NATO staff. The Italian men called her Bella. But I wanted her to be my Bella. Cold foie gras with warm figs."

Bella eyes the Terrine of Foie Gras.

Bella Crawford: "Would I be a horrible guest if I skipped this course?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Too rich?"

Bella Crawford: "Too cruel."

Jack Crawford: "PhyllIS."

Hannibal Lecter: "First and worst sign of sociopathic behavior -- cruelty to animals."

Jack Crawford: "That doesn’t apply in the kitchen."

Hannibal Lecter: "I have no taste for animal cruelty. The goose, in this case the gander, is not force fed. It eats only as much as it chooses and only in its natural environment. Would you like your wife’s serving?"

Jack Crawford: "Please."

Hannibal Lecter: "At my table, just the cruel deserve cruelty, Mrs. Crawford. Which is why I employ an ethical butcher."

Bella Crawford: "An ethical butcher? Be kind to animals and then eat them?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m afraid I insist on it. No need for unnecessary suffering. Human emotions are gifts from our animal ancestors. Cruelty is the gift humanity has given itself."

Jack Crawford: "The gift that keeps giving."

Hannibal Lecter leans over Bella, pouring more wine into her glass.

Hannibal Lecter: "Your perfume is exquisite, similar to the aroma on the air just after lightning strikes. Is it Jar?"

Bella Crawford: "You’ve got some nose, Doctor."

Hannibal Lecter: "I first noticed my keen sense of smell when I was a young man. I was aware one of my teachers had stomach cancer even before he did."

Jack Crawford: "Makes an effective parlor trick."

An almost imperceptible reaction from Bella Crawford. Exactly the effect Hannibal Lecter was trying to achieve.

Hannibal Lecter: "Our next course is roasted pork shank. And I assure you, Bella, it was an especially supercilious pig."

EXT. LONELY ROAD - NIGHT

A hoof enters frame with an ominous, scraping clack. The black stag slowly lumbers down the vacant rural road. It is walking directly behind Will Graham.

His eyes are glassy and vacant. He’s clad in boxers and a white t-shirt, coming directly from bed. He walks on the gravel, barefoot, seemingly unaware of the beast behind him.

Will Graham looks up at the bright moon overhead, his heartbeat and circulatory system a din in his ears.

He stops, swaying ever so slightly at his ankles. The black stag slows to a stop. Its snout nudges Will's arm, dangling at his side. Will doesn’t react, his arm only barely moves.

The road stretches into the night in front of Will, vibrating in and out of focus as beams of light cut through the darkness.

He instinctively holds up his arm to shield his eyes from the glare of the bright headlights. They belong to an approaching police car. It rolls to a stop. Two police officers step out of either side of the car.

Police Officer: "Are you lost?"

Will Graham: "What?"

Police Officer: "What’s your name?"

Will Graham: "Will Graham."

Police Officer: "You know where you are, Mr. Graham?"

Will Graham: "No."

Police Officer: "Where do you live?"

Will Graham: "Wolf Trap, Virginia."

Police Officer: "We’re in Wolf Trap. So that’s good. You’re close to home. Is that yours?"

Will Graham slowly glances over to see, not the black stag of his nightmare, but the tail-wagging concern of Winston.

Will Graham: "Hi, Winston."

Winston can barely contain himself, worried about Will. As his dog nudges Will, he becomes aware he is in mild pain.

Will Graham: "Can I sit down? My feet hurt."

Police Officer: "Why don’t we take you home?"

Moments later, in the back of the cop car, Will slides in followed immediately thereafter by Winston. A standard-issue wool blanket is wrapped around his shoulders. Will plucks gravel out of his feet while trying to keep Winston from licking his wounds and his face. One of the police officers hovers over him, flashlights shining politely.

Police Officer: "Are you on any drugs, medications? Prescription or otherwise?"

Will Graham: "No."

Police Officer: "Have you been drinking?"

Will Graham: "No. Yes. Not excessively. I had two fingers of whiskey before bed."

Police Officer: "Do you have a history of sleepwalking, Mr. Graham?"

Will Graham: "I’m not even sure I’m awake now."

EXT. “THE WELCOME INN” MOTEL - ICE MACHINE - DAY

Cubes of ice drop one by one from an ice machine, falling onto a larger pile of ice in a hypnotic fashion.

The back of a lone man stands at the Ice Machine, a sheen of sweat coating the nape of his neck. A family of three shuffles by juggling their suitcases. The lone man scoops ice into his bucket to not draw attention to himself, glancing at the family. The child smiles and the lone man looks away. The woman draws the child closer, protective but not too obvious.

The lone man returns his attention to the plink-plink-plink of the Ice Machine. He slowly turns to see a couple who we will call Mr. and Mrs. Anderson emerging from their room and walking toward the Ice Machine with a bucket. As they approach, the lone man quickly starts scooping up ice into his bucket. He’s apparently afraid to look at Mr. and Mrs. Anderson, but can’t help himself.

The flesh of Mr. and Mrs. Anderson’s face and hands are monstrously distorted, rippling trails of heat emanate from their bodies as their skin roils with flame. Demonic... hallucinogenic...

The lone man averts his eyes toward the bucket of ice. The reflective fire of the approaching couple flickers off the ice. Off the ice beginning to melt...

EXT. HANNIBAL’S HOUSE - EARLY MORNING - BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

INT. HANNIBAL’S KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING

The vapor pressure of the water in a vacuum coffee maker pushes water up into the higher chamber, through the coffee grounds. Hannibal Lecter wears his bathrobe, having been roused from sleep. Will Graham stands nearby, fully clothed, relatively bright eyed.

Hannibal Lecter: "Although I may be, is it safe to assume you’re not sleepwalking now?"

Will Graham: "I’m sorry it’s so early."

Hannibal Lecter: "Never apologize for coming to me. Office hours are for patients. My kitchen is always open to friends."

Hannibal Lecter hands Will a cup of coffee.

Hannibal Lecter: "Onset of sleepwalking in adulthood is less common than in children."

Will Graham: "Could it be a seizure?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I’d argue good old-fashioned post traumatic stress. Jack Crawford has gotten your hands very dirty."

Will Graham: "Wasn’t forced back into the field."

Hannibal Lecter: "I wouldn’t say forced. Manipulated would be the word I’d choose."

Will Graham: "I can handle it."

Hannibal Lecter: "Somewhere between denying horrible events and calling them out lies the truth of psychological trauma."

Will Graham: "So I can’t handle it?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Your experience may’ve overwhelmed ordinary functions that give you a sense of control."

Will Graham: "If my body is walking around without my permission, you’d say that’s a loss of control?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Wouldn’t you? Sleepwalkers demonstrate a difficulty handling aggression. Are you experiencing difficulty with aggressive feelings?"

Will Graham: "You said Jack sees me as fine china used for special guests. Beginning to feel more like an old mug."

Hannibal Lecter: "You entered into a Devil’s Bargain with Jack Crawford. Takes a toll."

Will Graham: "Jack’s not the devil."

Hannibal Lecter: "When it comes to how far he’s willing to push you to get what he wants, Jack’s certainly no saint."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - DAY

Hannibal Lecter opens his door to find Bella Crawford sitting in his waiting room, beautiful even in repose.

Hannibal Lecter: "Mrs. Crawford. Please come in."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal Lecter sits opposite Bella Crawford.

Hannibal Lecter: "How often do you see him?"

Bella Crawford: "Twice a week at first. Now it’s usually just once."

Hannibal Lecter: "You’re satisfied then?"

Bella Crawford: "Enough to keep seeing him."

Hannibal Lecter: "Your intention is not to tell Jack."

Bella Crawford: "I don’t know what good it will do. It would just be complaining. I don’t complain. Makes it easier to be intolerant of complainers."

Hannibal Lecter: "You’re allowed to complain."

Bella Crawford: "I’ll complain to you. Jack sees the world at its worst. Don’t need him seeing me at mine. He already has too much to worry about."

Hannibal Lecter: "He has room for one more worry. Seems like you’re protecting him."

Bella Crawford: "I am."

Bella heaves a sigh, knowing what is ahead.

Bella Crawford: "I’ve had dinner at your home. You have a professional relationship with my husband. There’s no conflict of interest me being here?"

Hannibal Lecter smiles, appreciates the attempt at deflection.

Hannibal Lecter: "It’s unorthodox but not unheard of. Given the nature of your problem, seeing someone who knows Jack removes some of the guesswork."

Bella Crawford: "This all started as some misguided stab at maintaining my dignity."

Hannibal Lecter: "Nothing undignified about this."

Bella Crawford: "Not yet, but I have indignity to look forward to, don’t I?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Only indignity I see is resentment. Why do you resent your husband?"

Bella Crawford: "I resent that Jack has too much to worry about to worry about me."

Hannibal Lecter: "That’s your choice, not his."

Bella Crawford: "Maybe you should see us both for couples counseling."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’d recommend another psychiatrist for couples. I wouldn’t want you to have the home couch advantage."

Bella Crawford: "It’s hard enough dealing with how I feel about all this. Don’t need to deal with how Jack feels about it."

EXT. “THE WELCOME INN” MOTEL - DAY - TRENTON, NEW JERSEY

A bungalow-style travel lodge in its seedy, ramshackle heyday. Jack Crawford and Will Graham move through the gauntlet of shell-shocked local police officers and F.B.I. agents milling about coroner’s vans and police cars.

Jack Crawford: "Room was registered to John Smith, along with every other room here."

Will Graham: "Appalling failure of imagination."

Jack Crawford: "They paid with cash. No security cameras on the premises. The motel practically advertises it."

Will Graham: "John Smith one of the victims?"

Jack Crawford: "Mr. and Mrs. Anderson according to the register. Mutilated, displayed. Thought it might be the Chesapeake Ripper but no surgical trophies were taken. I need you to prepare yourself."

Will Graham: "I’m prepared."

Jack Crawford: "Prepare yourself some more. It’s soup in there."

Will Graham: "Soup isn’t good for the soul."

Jack Crawford: "Not this soup. No jurisdictional rivalry here. Local Police practically begged us to take it."

Off Will’s haze, Jack snaps his fingers to get Will’s attention.

Jack Crawford: "Where’s your head?"

Will Graham: "On my pillow. I didn’t sleep."

Jack Crawford: "Got just the thing to wake you up."

INT. “THE WELCOME INN” MOTEL - MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Jack Crawford and Will Graham enter to find Brian Zeller taking photographs of the crime scene. Two bodies, one male, one female, kneel on either side of the bed. The flesh of their backs has been cut down the middle, each side peeled back in a large flap, which rise outstretched like wings. Hooks in the skin tied to hooks in the ceiling and walls with fishing line spread the “wings.” Wrists are bound in front of them also with fishing line, raised in mock prayer. Victims’ heads loll on their necks. Zeller photographs the dorsal wounds of the victims as Beverly Katz navigates the fishing line to take samples from the crumpled bed sheets that were clearly slept in.

Jimmy Price is dusting an open bottle of scotch and three glasses on a small table for fingerprints; one is still full.

Will Graham: "Okay. I’m awake."

Jack Crawford: "Hooks were bored into the ceiling. Fishing line was used to hold up the bodies and parts of bodies."

Beverly Katz: "Least we know he’s a fisherman."

Jimmy Price: "And or a Viking."

Brian Zeller: "Vikings do this?"

Jimmy Price: "Vikings do a lot of things. Discovered America 500 years before Columbus. Well, discovered Canada."

Beverly Katz: "Canada is America."

Jimmy Price: "Vikings would execute Christians by breaking their ribs and bending them back so they looked like wings. Then they’d rip out their lungs. Called it a Blood Eagle."

Will Graham: "Pagans mocking the God Fearing."

Jack Crawford: "Who’s mocking who here?"

Will Graham: "He’s not mocking them. He’s transforming them."

Beverly Katz: "I don’t know if it was a good night’s sleep, but he slept here. Hair on the pillow and the sheets are still damp. He’s a sweater."

Will Graham: "Madness slept here last night."

Beverly indicates the small pool of vomit on the edge of the bed washing onto the night stand.

Beverly Katz: "He threw up on the night stand."

Jack Crawford: "Couldn’t stomach what he did? Flop sweat and nervous indigestion."

Will Graham: "Not nervous. Righteous. Thinks he’s elevating them somehow, making them better than how he saw them. I need a plastic sheet to cover the bed."

Moments later, a rubber evidence sheet covers the entire bed, creating a barrier to evidence tampering. Will Graham lays back on the bed, glancing down at the man-made monsters at his feet.

Will Graham takes a breath, exhales.

Will Graham: "This is not who you are. You are more now than what you were."

A pendulum swings in the darkness of Will’s mind. FWUM. FWUM. FWUM.

The pendulum arcs through, wiping away in its wake the gush of blood stains on the bed. FWUM. The pendulum swings again, wiping away the fishing wire and the hooks. FWUM. The pendulum arcs, revealing the male and female victims are now pre-skinning, kneeling in supplication by the bed.

He watches with restrained awe as he narrates.

Will Graham: "This is my gift to you."

The male and female victims’ backs simultaneously split and open, unfolding into outstretched wings in one graceful, elegant, horrifying movement. Backlit fishing lines extend from the wings like biblical rays of light.

Will Graham: "I allow you to be Angels. Now I lay me down to sleep."

Will closes his eyes.

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY

The winged-corpses of Mr. and Mrs. Anderson appear to hover over stainless steel slabs.

Beverly Katz: "Death makes angels of us all..."

Beverly Katz runs a small plastic tool along the flap of skin hanging off the exposed muscle of Mrs. Anderson’s back. Brian Zeller carefully removes the fish hooks one by one, dropping them into a pan with a PLINK... PLINK... PLINK.

Beverly Katz: "...and gives us wings where we had shoulders smooth as ravens’ claws."

Brian Zeller: "Robert Frost."

Will Graham: "Jim Morrison."

Beverly Katz: "Even a drunk with a flair for the dramatic can convince himself he’s God. Or the Lizard King."

Jimmy Price: "God makes angels. Jesus was fond of Fisherman. Are we going hard core Judeo-Christian upsetting or just upsetting in general."

Will Graham: "This is a very specific upsetting."

Brian Zeller: "Increase of serotonin in the wounds is much higher than the free histamines so she lived for about 15 minutes after she was skinned."

Jimmy Price enters from his work bay, having just identified something.

Jimmy Price: "The powder residue on the neck of the soda bottle was Vecuronium. Scotch’n soda’n a paralytic agent."

Brian Zeller: "Had them kneeling in supplication at the feet of G dash D."

Jimmy Price: "Supplication is the most common form of prayer. Gimme-gimme-gimme."

Will Graham: "They weren’t praying to him. They were praying for him. He’s afraid."

Beverly Katz: "What is somebody who could do something like this afraid of?"

Will Graham: "He’s dying. What’s in his vomit?"

Beverly Katz: "Dexamethasone... kepra..."

Brian Zeller: "He was epileptic. Radiation?"

Beverly Katz: "Gamma four."

Brian Zeller: "Steroids for inflammation. Anti-convulsants for seizures. Radiation from chemotherapy. Our guy has a brain tumor."

Will Graham: "He’s afraid of dying in his sleep. He makes Angels to watch over him."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter stands over Will on the second floor, scanning the shelves for a particular book on neurology. He pulls it.

Hannibal Lecter: "There’s no one and only spiritual center of the brain. Any idea of God comes from many areas of the mind working together in unison."

Hannibal Lecter climbs down the ladder then tosses the book to Will.

Will Graham: "Maybe I’m wrong. How do you profile someone who has an anomaly in their head changing the way they think?"

Hannibal Lecter: "A tumor can definitely affect brain function, even causing vivid hallucinations. However, what appears to be driving your Angel Maker to create heaven on Earth is a simple issue of mortality."

Will Graham: "Can’t beat God, become him."

Hannibal Lecter: "You said he was afraid."

Will Graham: "He feels abandoned."

Hannibal Lecter: "Ever feel abandoned, Will?"

Will Graham: "Abandonment requires expectation."

Hannibal Lecter: "What were your expectations of Jack Crawford and the F.B.I.?"

Will Graham: "Jack hasn’t abandoned me."

Hannibal Lecter: "Not in any discernible way. Perhaps in the way Gods abandon their creations."

Will Graham: "Well, this should be interesting. Please proceed, Doctor."

Hannibal Lecter: "Jack gave you his word he would protect your head space. Yet he leaves you to your mental devices."

Will Graham: "Are you trying to alienate me from Jack Crawford?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m trying to help you understand this Angel Maker you seek."

Will Graham: "Help me understand how to catch him."

Hannibal Lecter: "If he were a classic paranoid schizophrenic, you might be able to influence him to become visible."

Will Graham: "Scare him out into the daylight."

Hannibal Lecter: "Might even get him to hurt himself if he hasn’t already."

Will Graham: "If he were self-destructive, he wouldn’t be so careful."

Hannibal Lecter: "Unless he’s being careful about his self-destruction. He’s making angels to pray over him when he sleeps. Who prays over us when we sleep?"

INT. JACK CRAWFORD’S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jack Crawford lies in the dark, staring at the ceiling. Bella enters and silently slips under the covers.

Jack Crawford: "Do you wait until I shut off my light before you come to bed?"

Bella Crawford: "Not intentionally. I’m working late, nothing personal."

Jack Crawford: "Can we have a conversation or should we go on pretending everything is alright."

Bella Crawford: "Everything is alright."

Jack Crawford: "Then no conversation."

Bella Crawford: "I’m just overwhelmed at the moment."

Jack Crawford: "With?"

Bella Crawford: "A lot going on with work, etcetera."

Jack Crawford: "I don’t like etcetera."

Bella Crawford: "Okay, then it’s work. I need to sort through some things. It’s outside your jurisdiction, Jack."

Jack Crawford: "I’m good at sorting through things. Very least, I can underwhelm you when you’re feeling overwhelmed."

Bella Crawford: "You’ve never been able to underwhelm me."

Jack Crawford: "There’s some confidential something you can’t share with me, that it?"

Bella Crawford: "That’s exactly it."

Jack Crawford: "Is there anything I can offer you romantically, physically, spiritually that can help you?"

Bella Crawford: "No."

Jack Crawford: "So what I can do for you as your husband is to leave you alone and not ask you questions."

Bella Crawford: "You can ask me whatever you want."

Jack Crawford: "I won’t insult you by asking if there’s someone else."

Bella Crawford: "Thank you."

Jack Crawford: "Whatever you’re sorting out, you’ll sort it out and we’ll go back to being us or is this us now?"

Bella Crawford: "I don’t want this to be us."

Jack Crawford: "I love you, Bella."

Bella Crawford: "I love you, too."

Jack Crawford: "When there is something I can do, you promise to tell me?"

Bella Crawford: "I promise."

He takes her hand in the dark, but she doesn’t look his way.

EXT. ABANDONED BUILDING - NIGHT - CLEVELAND, OHIO

A moody evening, moonlight filtered through the hazy light pollution hanging above the city. Scattered all around the area are various tents and sleeping bags suggesting a shanty town populated with homeless people. A lone man walks through the shanty town, a sheen of sweat coating the nape of his neck.

He glances at the various homeless people, paying them very little attention. He looks upward, toward the sky, toward heaven, taking a deep breath of the night air and exhaling. There is a distant clopping sound of boots on pavement. A security guard is moving through the winding path that cuts through the tents.

As the security guard approaches, the lone man tenses at the horror he sees. The flesh of the security guard’s face and hands is monstrously distorted, rippling trails of heat emanate from his body as his skin roils with flame. Demonic... hallucinogenic...

The lone man’s head turns to follow the security guard as he approaches.

Lone Man: "I see what you are."

INT. ABANDONED BUILDING - EARLY MORNING

Will Graham approaches what appears to be an altar on high. He is staring at a man-made angel made from a man. A corpse of a man has been mounted on scaffolding covered in plastic sheets, creating a divine luminescence from behind. Lines of blood streaking the transparent plastic sheets serve as a corona of sorts emanating down from the angel wings. Beneath the angel corpse is a crumpled, stained mattress.

Will is captivated as Jack Crawford approaches. Brian Zeller, Beverly Katz and Jimmy Price don their gloves.

Jack Crawford: "Why angels?"

Will Graham: "It isn’t Biblical. His angels have wings. In sculpture and paintings, angels fly, but not in the Bible."

Jack Crawford: "He’s drawing from secular sources."

Will Graham: "His mind has turned against him and there’s no one there to help."

Brian Zeller carefully picks up a pair of severed testicles.

Jimmy Price: "Are those? What are those?"

Brian Zeller: "Someone got an orchiectomy cheap."

Beverly Katz shines her flashlight at the security guard’s crotch.

Beverly Katz: "Doesn’t look like the victim."

Jimmy Price: "The Angel Maker?"

Beverly Katz: "He castrated himself?"

Will Graham: "He’s not just making angels, he’s getting ready to become one. Angels don’t have genitalia."

Jimmy Price: "Save me a place in hell."

Jack Crawford: "He was afraid of dying and now he’s getting used to the idea?"

Will Graham: "He’s accepted it or he’s bargaining."

Brian Zeller: "Some bargaining chips."

Jack Crawford: "Does that mean he’s done making angels or just getting started."

Will Graham: "I don’t know."

Jack Crawford: "He’s not just killing when he gets sleepy. How is he choosing them?"

Will Graham: "I don’t know. Ask him."

Jack Crawford: "I’m asking you."

Will Graham: "You’re the head of the Behavioral Science Unit, Jack. Why don’t you come up with your own answers if you don’t like mine."

A stillness washes over Zeller, Price and Katz with Will’s blatant disrespect. Jack locks Will with a cold stare.

Jack Crawford: "I didn’t hear that."

Will Graham: "No, you didn’t. I’m sorry."

Embarrassed by his outburst, Will wanders back over to the angel to collect his thoughts. Jack watches him go.

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY

Will stands between the corpses of Mr. and Mrs. Anderson, as alone in the work bay as he is in his head. Beverly Katz enters and leans on the morgue drawer, studying Will.

Beverly Katz: "I’ve never seen anybody talk to Jack the way you talked to Jack."

Will Graham: "I was out of line."

Beverly Katz: "You were out of your mind. My ears rang like they did the first time I heard my mom say the f-word. Are you okay? I know it’s a stupid thing to ask considering that none of us could possibly be okay doing what we do. But are you okay?"

Will Graham: "Do I seem different?"

Beverly Katz: "You’re a little different. You’ve always been a little different. Brilliant strategy. No one knows when there’s something up with you."

Will Graham: "How would I know if there was something up with you?"

Beverly Katz: "You wouldn’t. But I would tell you if you asked me. Return the favor?"

Before Will can answer, Jimmy Price's voice is heard.

Jimmy Price: "Would the real Mr. and Mrs. Anderson please stand up."

Will looks up as Jimmy Price enters with a file. The moment with Beverly is momentarily shattered.

Jimmy Price: "No? Meet Roger & Marilyn Brunner. May recognize them from such lists as Most Wanted. He likes to rape and murder. She likes to watch."

Jimmy hands the file to Will, who quickly looks it over.

Jimmy Price: "We have a DNA match. They falsified the motel registry and were driving a stolen car, so it took a second to identify them."

Will Graham: "I wonder how long it took Angel Maker to identify them. He didn’t choose them randomly."

Jimmy hands Beverly another report.

Jimmy Price: "He knows something about them. The murdered Security Guard wasn’t actually a Security Guard, which I’d say means he was up to no good."

Beverly Katz: "Could Angel Maker be a vigilante?"

Will Graham: "Vigilantes are pragmatic, purposeful. They don’t lay down and go to sleep under their crimes. In his mind, he’s doing God’s work."

Beverly Katz: "That spells vigilante."

Will Graham: "Playing God has advantages. One of them is never having to be alone."

Beverly Katz: "So he makes Angels out of demons."

Jimmy Price: "How does he know they’re demons?"

Will Graham: "He doesn’t have to know. All he has to do is believe."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

Bella Crawford takes a deep breath, sitting opposite Hannibal Lecter. He allows her to gather her thoughts.

Hannibal Lecter: "Has Jack begun to suspect? He is a behavioral specialist. He must know you’re keeping something from him."

Bella Crawford: "Oh, he knows. He asked me if I was having an affair by reassuring me he didn’t have to ask."

Hannibal Lecter: "I doubt he believes you’re unfaithful."

Bella Crawford: "Why do you doubt that?"

Hannibal Lecter: "It’s clear you love your husband."

That hits Bella harder than Hannibal Lecter thought. She deflects.

Bella Crawford: "Women who love their husbands still find reasons to cheat on them."

Hannibal Lecter: "Not you. Yet you seem more betrayed by Jack than your own body."

Bella Crawford: "I don’t feel betrayed by Jack. And there’s no point being mad at cancer for being cancer."

Hannibal Lecter: "Sure there is."

Bella Crawford: "Cancer isn’t cruel. A tiny cell wanders off from my liver and gets lost. It finds its way into my lungs where it’s just trying to do its job and grow a liver."

Hannibal Lecter: "What it’s growing and where it’s growing it will likely kill you."

Bella Crawford: "Not likely. It will kill me. And no amount of blueberries and antioxidants can change that now."

Hannibal Lecter: "But you hold Jack accountable for his inability to cure cancer. Should I have said his inability to save you? That be more accurate?"

Bella Crawford: "I am slowly shrinking while that tiny thing keeps growing larger every day, but I feel... fine."

Hannibal Lecter: "You’ll feel fine up until the precise moment you don’t."

Bella Crawford: "It’s really a very dull story, isn’t it? The ending is always the same and that same is that it ends."

Hannibal Lecter: "So you withdraw from your relationship with the man who strolled along the quays of Livorno, Italy and called you Bella."

Bella Crawford: "The cancer is already withdrawing me from our relationship. And everything else. Maybe it’ll be easier for Jack this way."

Hannibal Lecter: "Why? He’s losing you twice."

Bella Crawford: "You said you could smell the cancer. What did it smell like?"

Hannibal Lecter considers his answers, then chooses the most honest.

Hannibal Lecter: "Death."

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Will lies in bed, staring at the ceiling as the alarm clock blinks from 11:31 PM to 3:45 AM. Will doesn’t close his eyes. Finally, his eyelids slowly close under their own weight. A distant, muffled barking slowly rouses him to consciousness and Will opens his eyes.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

Will stands on the roof in his underwear. His dogs are barking at him through the open window he apparently crawled through. He looks on with growing concern for his new “condition.”

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - EVENING

Several tablets are shaken from an aspirin bottle into the palm of Will Graham's hand. Will takes three aspirin tablets from his palm and slings them back, chasing with a glass of water. Hannibal Lecter observes.

Hannibal Lecter: "It’s hard to lie still and fear going to sleep when it’s there to think about. You listen to your breathing in the dark and the tiny clicks of your blinking eyes."

Will paces, avoiding the patient hot seat.

Will Graham: "I dream more now than I used to."

Hannibal Lecter: "Your dreams were the one place you could be physically safe relinquishing control. Not anymore."

Will Graham: "I thought about zipping myself into a sleeping bag before I go to sleep, but it sounds too much like a poor man’s straight jacket."

The statue of the black stag near the patient exit draws Will’s attention. He walks toward it.

Hannibal Lecter: "Have you determined how this Angel Maker is choosing his victims?"

Will Graham: "He doesn’t see people how everyone else sees them. He can tell if you’re naughty or nice. Or he thinks he can."

Hannibal Lecter: "God has given this Angel Maker insight into the souls of man?"

Will Graham: "God didn’t give him insight. Gave him a tumor. He’s just a man whose brain is playing tricks on him."

Hannibal Lecter: "You’re not unlike this killer."

Will Graham: "My brain is playing tricks on me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "You want to feel such sweet and easy peace. The Angel Maker wants that same peace. He hopes to feel his way cautiously inside it and find it is endless all around him."

Will Graham: "He’s going to be disappointed."

Hannibal Lecter: "You accept the impossibility of such a feeling. Whereas the Angel Maker is still chasing it."

Hannibal Lecter crosses to study him as he studies the stag.

Hannibal Lecter: "If he got close to it, that’s where he would look for it again."

Will Graham: "I’ve been trying to reconstruct his thinking, find his patterns."

Hannibal Lecter: "Instead you find yourself in a behavior pattern you can’t break. You realize you have a choice."

Will Graham: "What is it?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Angel Maker will be destroyed by what’s happening inside his head. You don’t have to be."

Hannibal Lecter stands behind Will, his nostrils flaring as he focuses on the back of Will’s neck.

Will Graham: "Did you just smell me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Difficult to avoid. I really must introduce you to a finer after shave. That smells like something with a ship on the bottle."

Will Graham: "I keep getting it for Christmas."

Hannibal Lecter: "Have your headaches gotten any worse lately? More frequent?"

Will Graham: "Yes, actually."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’d change the after shave."

INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORD’S OFFICE - DAY

A truck driving permit for Elliot Budish is displayed on a data padd. Brian Zeller slides the data padd across the desk to Jack Crawford, who gives it a quick once over.

Brian Zeller: "Elliot Budish. 35-year-old truck driver. Got a fishing license, too. Match came from the national cancer data base. Married, two children. Family hasn’t seen him in 4 months. He was diagnosed 5 months ago."

Jack Crawford: "Meet the Angel Maker."

INT. B.A.U. - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Jack Crawford and Will Graham sit opposite Emma Budish, a slightly anxious woman unsure why she is here.

Jack Crawford: "Has he contacted you since he left?"

Emma: "I left him. And no, he hasn’t."

Jack Crawford: "Why did you leave?"

Emma: "Because of his cancer. Makes me sound like a horrible wife."

Jack Crawford: "Sure you had your reasons."

Emma: "I took a leave from work to be with him. I wanted to be there for him. But what he wanted was to be alone."

Jack comes to the unfortunate realization he and Emma have something in common.

Emma: "He kept pulling away and pulling away. He made it clear he didn’t want me there. Then it wasn’t clear. Then it didn’t matter why he was acting the way he was."

Will watches as Jack pours himself a glass of water and drinks, mind spinning. Will realizes he has to pick up the baton of the interrogation as Jack is clearly suddenly distracted.

Emma: "It was weird for the kids. What kind of mother exposes her children to someone who’s losing their mind."

Will Graham: "Was he ever violent, Mrs. Budish?"

Her hesitation suggests more than a yes or no answer.

Emma: "He was angry. Never hit me or the boys. I thought when he got weak enough, when the cancer got worse, it wouldn’t be confusing for them. They could just see him as a sick man, and not someone so terrified."

Will Graham: "Did your husband’s faith falter after he was told about the cancer."

Emma: "Eric wasn’t ever religious. Is he doing something religious?"

Will Graham: "He may believe he is."

Jack Crawford: "Your husband’s dying, Mrs. Budish. Soon. We want to find him before he hurts himself or anyone else."

The words coming out of Jack’s mouth have a larger import than they did only moments ago.

Emma: "He died once before. Suffocated in a fire when he was a little boy. Fireman who resuscitated him said he must’ve had a guardian angel."

Will Graham: "Where did this happen?"

Emma: "A farm where he grew up."

EXT. BARN - DAY

Will Graham and Jack Crawford stomp through the dead grass as they approach. Two local police cars and their police officers wait in the background.

INT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

Will Graham and Jack Crawford move through a rolling slatted wood door, revealing another angel of death hanging in the rafters, illuminated by shafts of light. A stunned moment as Will and Jack take in the horrific image. Jack heaves an annoyed sigh at another life lost.

Will Graham: "This will be the last one."

Jack’s flashlight beam flickers across the Angel’s face—it’s the same face on the driver’s license seen earlier.

Jack Crawford: "It’s Budish?"

Will Graham: "He made himself into an angel."

Dripping blood from the flesh of his wings draws Will closer. Jack crosses to the barn door and shouts to the local police officers waiting in the distant field.

Jack Crawford: "Get the Coroner down here."

Will watches Elliot Budish’s angelic form from a safe distance.

Will Graham: "It wasn’t God, wasn’t man, it was his choice to die."

Jack Crawford: "His choice?"

Will Graham: "As much as he could make it."

Jack Crawford: "You feeling a shortage of choices?"

Will Graham: "I don’t know how much longer I can be all that useful to you, Jack."

Jack Crawford: "Really? You caught three. The last three we had, you caught."

Will Graham: "I didn’t catch this one. Elliot Budish surrendered."

Frustrated, Jack turns to walk out of the barn.

Jack Crawford: "I’m used to not getting information from my wife. I don’t need to not get information from you, too."

Will’s confession stops Jack on the threshold.

Will Graham: "It’s getting harder and harder to make myself look."

Jack Crawford: "No one is asking you to look alone."

Will Graham: "But I am looking alone. And you know what looking at this does."

Jack Crawford: "I know what happens when you don’t look. So do you."

Will Graham: "I can make myself look but the thinking is shutting down."

Jack Crawford: "What is it about this one?"

Will Graham: "It’s not this one. It’s all of them. It’s the next one. It’s the one I know is coming after that."

Jack Crawford: "I don’t think you want to go back to your lecture hall and read about the next one on TattleCrime.com."

Will Graham: "No, I don’t. But that may be what I have to do. This is bad for me."

Jack Crawford: "I’m not the pope, I’m not going to tell you what you ought to do --"

Will Graham: "Sounds like that’s exactly what you’re going to do."

Jack Crawford: "You go back to your classroom and there’s more killing that you could have prevented, it will sour that classroom forever."

Will Graham: "Maybe. Then maybe I find a job as a diesel mechanic in a boatyard."

Jack Crawford studies Will without saying anything, then abruptly turns and walks out of the barn, leaving Will alone.

Jack Crawford: "If you want to quit, quit."

Will stands there a moment, stung and reeling from the confrontation, debating on how to proceed. Elliot Budish is no longer hanging in the rafters, but is standing within arm’s reach of Will.

INT. BARN - DAY

As before. Will Graham turns to see that Elliot Budish is no longer hanging from the rafters, but is now within reach.

Will turns to see his attacker, the flesh of his face and hands monstrously distorted, rippling trails of heat emanating from his body as his skin roils with flame. Demonic... hallucinogenic...

Weak from the loss of blood from his self-inflicted wounds, delirious from his tumor, Elliot Budish looks upon Will and simply states:

Elliot Budish: "I see what you are."

He stumbles forward, collapsing in apparent supplication on the floor. Will isn’t afraid, his hand calmly goes to his gun as he slowly steps out of reach.

Will Graham: "What do you see?"

Elliot Budish: "Inside. I can bring it out of you."

Will raises his gun, training it on Budish but not firing, even as Budish advances. Will continues to back away.

Will Graham: "Not all the way out."

Jack Crawford is silhouetted in the doorway.

Elliot Budish: "I will give you the majesty of your Becoming."

Elliot Budish can’t raise the knife to swipe, instead he crumples in apparent supplication on the manger floor, his hands in his lap, somewhat prayer-like. He goes still.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - PRIVATE EXIT - DAY

Hannibal Lecter opens the door to usher Bella Crawford out. They are both surprised to see Jack Crawford waiting for them.

Hannibal Lecter: "Agent Crawford."

Bella Crawford: "Hello, Jack."

Jack Crawford: "Doctor, you mind waiting in the waiting room so my wife and I can borrow your office for a moment?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Not at all."

He takes a seat in his waiting room as Jack Crawford closes the door.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - DAY

Bella Crawford stands, her coat on, holding her purse, ready to leave. Jack blinks, searching the room for his words.

Bella Crawford: "Just dropping by on official business... or did you follow me?"

Jack Crawford: "I called your office. They said you were at an appointment. Thought you might be here."

Bella quickly puts the pieces together.

Bella Crawford: "You know? I knew you’d find out."

Jack Crawford: "When did you find out?"

Bella Crawford: "Twelve weeks ago. Lung cancer."

Jack Crawford: "You don’t smoke."

Bella Crawford: "The irony."

Jack Crawford: "Treatable?"

Bella Crawford: "It’s Stage 4. And we know there’s no Stage 5, don’t we?"

Jack Crawford: "When were you going to tell me?"

Bella Crawford: "Far enough in the future that I’m really not prepared to have this conversation right now."

Jack Crawford: "We’re having it. Were you going to wait until you started chemotherapy and couldn’t hide it anymore."

Bella Crawford: "Don’t know if I want chemotherapy."

Jack Crawford: "Do I have a say in this?"

Bella Crawford: "No, you do not."

Jack wishes he didn’t respect that choice, but he does.

Jack Crawford: "Do you want to be alone?"

The bluntness of his question momentarily silences Bella.

Jack Crawford: "I don’t want you to answer that. I just want you to think about your answer. Because I don’t want you to be alone. Now or ever."

Bella Crawford: "We’ll beat this together?"

Jack Crawford: "This is your fight. But I’m in your corner and I’m not going anywhere."

Her smile is soft but forced.

Bella Crawford: "I appreciate that, Jack. But I’m not comforted by it. I know that’s what you need. To comfort me. But I can’t give you what you need."

Jack Crawford: "Don’t worry about what I need. Why wouldn’t you tell me?"

She slowly circles her answer.

Bella Crawford: "Thought if I kept it to myself our lives wouldn’t change. I didn’t count on changing as much as I did."

INT. B.A.U. - HALLWAY - DAY

Will Graham walks down the hall with purpose up to Jack Crawford’s closed door, considers, then knocks.

Jack Crawford: "Come in."

INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORD’S OFFICE - DAY

Jack Crawford sits behind his desk, cupping his forehead in his hands as Will Graham enters and quietly takes a seat.

Jack Crawford: "What do you want, Will?"

Will Graham: "I’m going to sit here until you’re ready to talk. You don’t have to say a word until you’re ready, but I’m not leaving until you do."

A long, uncomfortable, anguish-filled moment passes.