INT. BAU - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)

Dr. Frederick Chilton has a five o'clock shadow and haunted eyes. He appears slightly distorted and flattened, his reflection in a two-way mirror. Suddenly, his image bulges and spiderwebs. His face shivers into a thousand glittering pieces as a bullet breaks through.

The bullet tracks through the air in ultra-slow-motion, toward his face. The flesh of his cheek ripples as the bullet strikes. Instantly, the room is plunged in darkness.

Dr. Frederick Chilton's skull goes transparent, giving a cross section view. Music accompanies as the bullet penetrates the skull in exquisite slow-motion; it fragments. Shards rip through his palate, destroying molars, lacerating the side of his tongue, lodging in his lower jaw. The cheekbone splinters and the orbital bones crunch inward, puncturing his left eyeball. But his brain is undamaged. Finally, the heaviest bullet fragment exits the back of his head, which rocks backward violently in a delayed reaction as the music reaches a crescendo and stops.

His face looks directly at us. No scars or injuries—he has healed. A little steely, as if remade with stronger stuff. A lot of time has passed since he was shot. Eerie blue light ripples over his face.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Each of us whose life intersected Hannibal Lecter lost something. A limb here, a lung there. A few feet of intestines. The dead--"

In the background there's an unpleasant sucking sound. Slkghhh. Slkghhh. Dr. Frederick Chilton pauses, masking his irritation.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "The dead at least have the luxury of being done with what they lost. But you and I, we still itch."

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MASON'S BEDROOM - DAY

Sunlight slants through from a balcony. The only other light comes from medical equipment surrounding Mason's bed, but the bed itself and its occupant are shrouded in shadow.

Mason Verger: "That little itch should be telling you something."

A large print of Blake's Ancient of Days is on the wall. At Dr. Frederick Chilton's feet, an eel swims in restless Möbius designs. Dr. Frederick Chilton faces the bed. He's speaking to Mason Verger, who listens, bored. Propped up in bed, he rudely sucks some kind of smoothie through a straw in the mouth hole of his face mask. Slkghhh.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Would you like to discuss what that little itch is telling you?"

Mason stares, studying Dr. Frederick Chilton.

Mason Verger: "Are you wearing makeup? How long does it take you to put on your face in the morning?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton shows no sign of anger. He allows a slight smile.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Now that I've got the routine down, no time at all."

Mason Verger: "Tell you what. You show me yours and I'll show you mine."

Dr. Frederick Chilton hesitates, then starts removing his cosmetics. A contact lens is pinched off his left eye, revealing a dead, white eyeball. A layer of makeup is wiped from his cheekbone, revealing the puckered bullet scar. It pulls his face down at the corner of his mouth. Finally, Dr. Frederick Chilton stands before Mason, with all his damage exposed. Defiant. Almost proud.

Mason chuckles. His one mobile hand creeps up to remove his mask, revealing his own grotesquely-damaged face. The flesh below his cheeks is tight and raw, his nose absent. His mouth is pulled back in a rictus grin.

Mason Verger: "There. Now we can talk face to face."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I understand you've offered quite a substantial reward for any kind of relevant information on Hannibal Lecter, not just the usual apprehension and conviction."

Mason Verger: "Yes, a million dollars. One million. We advertised worldwide. A high price for a fancy pig."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Hannibal would be a prize pig if I had him in my hospital, but you do not intend to see him institutionalized, do you?"

Mason Verger: "I'm saying nothing that would force you to break the bonds of doctor-patient confidentiality."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "You don't want a therapist. You want a profiler."

Mason Verger: "I want to understand Hannibal Lecter, to better understand myself."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "You survived him. That is chief amongst what you need to understand."

Mason Verger: "'Survived him'? That implies fortune or skill on my part that somehow allowed me to live. This is exactly how he intended me to live. I know somewhere Dr. Lecter is going to and fro in the earth and walking up and down in it, and very likely having a good, fun time."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "How do you relieve the agony of waiting for Dr. Lecter's capture? What do you fantasize about? I wonder what would happen if Hannibal Lecter was in your hands."

Mason studies Dr. Frederick Chilton for an amused beat before offering a small laugh and a limp-yet-delighted slap to his thigh.

Mason Verger: "I worry we're heading into territory not secured by your fee. I think I need to look elsewhere for someone to tend to my emotional well-being. Good-bye, Dr. Chilton."

Dr. Frederick Chilton replaces the plate in his mouth and stands.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Happy hunting."

Mason watches Dr. Frederick Chilton exit.

We are nestled in the dark purple coils of someone's guts, looking out toward the stomach skin. The faintest bit of light, stained red, seeps in. It's peaceful. The person's heartbeat is felt as thudding reverberations. Faint voices permeate the abdominal walls.

Will Graham: "You were supposed to leave."

Hannibal Lecter: "We couldn't leave without you."

Their words from before shudder as Hannibal's linoleum knife plunges through the stomach skin, deftly carving sideways with laparoscopic precision. Blood flows, rushing back through the cut as it fills the frame and begins to pour from Will's body.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Will Graham stands, dressed as he was that fateful night, locked in Hannibal Lecter's deadly embrace in the dark kitchen. Blood is pouring from the wound, but rather than splashing to the floor, it defies gravity and swirls and wraps around Will Graham in great tendrils, as if in zero gravity. The blood envelops them totally.

Will Graham's eyes slowly flutter open. He gasps, wincing as he draws air into his rib cage. He takes in his surroundings.

INT. HOSPITAL - WILL GRAHAM'S ROOM - DAY

He is in a hospital bed. Glowing monitors flank him. His abdomen is freshly bandaged and stitched. His eye finds a wall clock with sagging numbers that have drifted onto the wall. In his shifting, blurring vision, the sagging, drifting numbers find their rightful places on the clock face. Will Graham stares a moment until the minute hand clicks. Time is passing and will continue to pass.

A figure, until now unseen, moves at the foot of his hospital bed. A doctor is inspecting Will Graham's chart. He replaces it and turns and smiles, pleased to see Will Graham is conscious.

The Doctor: "How do you feel?"

Will Graham: "Thirsty."

The doctor hands Will Graham the hospital-issue cup next to the bed, and Will Graham drinks slowly through the straw. The doctor looks to the open door of the ICU; an indistinct shadow indicates someone standing just around the corner.

The Doctor: "Feel well enough for a visitor?"

The doctor exits and the visitor enters. But instead of Abigail Hobbs, it is Dr. Frederick Chilton. Will Graham reacts, mildly disappointed by who he isn't, moderately disappointed by who he is.

Will Graham: "Hello, Frederick."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Were you expecting someone else?"

Will Graham: "I was hoping for someone else."

Dr. Frederick Chilton approaches Will Graham's bed, pulling up a chair.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "He knew exactly how to cut you. They said it was surgical. He wanted you to live."

Will Graham: "He left us to die."

For a brief moment, Will Graham sees Abigail Hobbs, not Dr. Frederick Chilton.

Abigail Hobbs: "But we didn't."

Will Graham blinks and Dr. Frederick Chilton is all that remains of Abigail.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Couple of suckers we've been. He set us up and knocked us down. What bothers me most is, I think it was easy for him. Shooting monkeys in a barrel. You had encephalitis. I don't know what my excuse was."

Will Graham: "Compulsive imitation."

Dr. Frederick Chilton suppresses a snort.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I'm just living out what I observed in your experience with Dr. Lecter? How dull. But maybe. I am learning all sorts of new things about myself these days. I'm learning new things about you, too."

Will Graham: "Imitation allows us to better understand the behavior of others."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I have great empathy for you, Will. Both of us eviscerated and accused, I have literally felt your pain."

Will Graham: "We have matching scars."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "By the way, I can recommend some excellent macrobiotic yogurt. You need a friend, friend. When you leave this hospital, it will be under a cloud of suspicion."

Will Graham: "Not a cloud. A fog."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Clear the air. I can help you get Hannibal Lecter out of your head."

Will Graham: "And into your hospital."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "As good a place for him as any. Of course, it would be preferable to study him in his natural habitat."

Will Graham: "I doubt you're the psychiatrist he would afford that opportunity to."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "There is an opportunity here. For both of us. We can catch the man who framed and maimed us."

Will Graham: "There's no opportunity here, Frederick. Not for you."

Dr. Frederick Chilton isn't terribly dissuaded.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "The optimist believes we live in the best of all possible worlds; the pessimist fears this is true. This is your best possible world, Will. Not getting a better one."

A pool of blood. Reflected in the surface, we can see a teacup falling toward it. As it's about to break the surface, the surface breaks the teacup. It shatters. Shards of porcelain spin midair, floating in the grace of extreme slow motion. As the shards spin, we see they are stranger than porcelain. One has an eye, one a mouth, another a stubbled jaw.

Then time reverses in extreme slow motion as the pieces draw together forming, not a teacup, but Will Graham. He floats off the floor that shattered him, again whole, rising up off of the glistening red surface of the coagulated blood pool as he is pulled into a seated position.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Will Graham is seated at a table with three settings. Jack Crawford is seated beside him. Hannibal Lecter glides into the room, in his shirtsleeves, a small DeSimone platter in each hand, each with a different appetizer. He sits across from his guests and slides both platters toward Will Graham. Two choices before him.

Time seems to slow and Will Graham's heartbeat becomes audible, thudding as his point of view swings to Jack, who gives an unspoken communication—an almost-imperceptible nod that doubles as a signal. Will Graham's point of view swivels to Hannibal Lecter who offers a decisive glance—a cue of his own. Will Graham's heart beats faster. The scene playing out is an alternate reality of what could have happened that final night.

As much is confirmed when Jack Crawford catches Hannibal Lecter's glance, seeing it as the signal it is. In slow-motion, Jack Crawford drops his wineglass and reaches inside his jacket for his gun. But Will Graham is a participant, and his pulse grows faster still. In that instant, he makes his decision—and reaches to grab Jack Crawford's arm, stopping his draw. Jack Crawford's eyes go to Will Graham, wide and stunned by his betrayal. Pained. Will Graham's heartbeat reaches a hammering tattoo.

Hannibal Lecter comes from behind and, with his serving knife, cuts Jack Crawford’s throat in a neat, clean motion. Will Graham and Hannibal Lecter struggle as one to hold Jack Crawford fast to his chair as his life spills down his chest. Will Graham blinks at a square of light dancing across his face—light reflected from Hannibal Lecter's killing blade.

A flare of metal. A series of boat engine pieces glint in the light as a bezel caps a lens caps a gasket caps a retainer circling a pointer assembly clasping into a dial fixing onto a light pipe.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY

Will Graham is hunched over a large boat engine on a bench, alongside a thirty-six-foot sailing yacht, the NOLA, which peeks out of his shed. His hands are grimy, work clothes oil-stained. He is carefully reassembling engine parts.

Jack Crawford is approaching from around the side of the house. He takes Will Graham in, says nothing till Will Graham notices his presence. Will Graham is surprised to see Jack Crawford, not sure he's happy about it.

Jack Crawford: "I had hoped you would come find me. I understand why you didn't."

Will Graham: "What can I do for you, Jack?"

Jack Crawford: "I'm here to make sure you don't contradict the official narrative. We're officers of the FBI, wounded in the course of heroic duty."

Will Graham: "That's not true for either of us."

Jack Crawford: "We were supposed to go together. That's on me. That's my foul."

Will Graham: "I'm not sure it would've turned out any different if we had."

Jack Crawford: "We assign a moment to decision, to dignify the timely result of rational and conscious thought."

Will Graham: "Not all of our choices are consciously calculated."

Jack Crawford: "Our decisions are."

Will Graham: "Decisions are made of kneaded feelings. They are more often a lump than a sum, Jack."

Jack Crawford: "Do you remember the moment you decided to call Hannibal?"

Will Graham goes still.

Will Graham: "I wasn't decided when I called him. I just called him. I deliberated while the phone rang. I decided when I heard his voice."

Jack Crawford: "You told him we knew."

Will Graham: "I told him to leave. I wanted him to run."

Jack Crawford: "Why?"

Will Graham: "Because he was my friend. Because I wanted to run away with him."

Alana Bloom is falling backward from Hannibal Lecter's window. A slow-motion shower of broken glass and rain. Horror on her face. But just before she hits the sidewalk, we see an X-ray view of her pelvic bone. Her bones are ghostly white, translucent and ethereal against a lush black background. Then her skeleton shudders with an impact, and, in mesmerizing slow motion, the pelvic bone fractures in multiple places. The iliac crest splinters.

Then sirens are audible, but they drop away.

Later, the translucent bones of Alana's pelvis are being fitted back together like a broken bowl. Drills enter her body, and we hear a distant high whine as they fix bone together with metal screws. This is the reconstruction of Alana Bloom.

An external fixation device, a grim metal brace, encircles Alana's pelvis. Metal rods enter her flesh to stabilize the pelvic bone.

INT. HOSPITAL - ALANA BLOOM'S ROOM - DAY

Alana Bloom lies in a stark white room, staring at the ceiling. No sound but the hum and beep of medical equipment.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "What I said before. I will say again, which is something you cannot say... that I did not warn you."

Alana Bloom cranes her stiff body as much as she can, locked in her fixation device, finally catching a glimpse of Dr. Frederick Chilton.

Alana Bloom: "Cannot see what you will not see."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Until it shoves you out a window."

Alana Bloom: "I've always enjoyed the word 'defenestration.' Now I get to use it in casual conversation."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "How many bones did you break?"

In an X-ray view of Alana Bloom's skeleton, the pelvic bone cracks and a burst of black marrow, like oil, flowers from the fracture. The black marrow billows up, spreading tendrils outward to wreathe her spine and ribs.

INT. HOSPITAL - ALANA BLOOM'S ROOM - DAY

Alana Bloom: "You say that like I broke them."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "You got yourself to the window, Dr. Bloom, if not through it."

It's a hard point for her to argue against.

Alana Bloom: "They told me a lot of marrow got into my blood."

The black marrow envelops her skull and surrounds her skeleton to form a tarry Alana. A new Alana Bloom: solid, dark, resolute.

INT. HOSPITAL - ALANA BLOOM'S ROOM - DAY

Alana Bloom: "And that I should expect to find myself thinking differently."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Hallelujah. I don't mean to kick you when you're down. I'm just reminding you how you got down."

Alana Bloom: "And who I'm down with."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "We could all use a little group therapy while we're down here."

Alana Bloom: "There's only one 'we' you're really interested in, Frederick, and that 'we' isn't really interested in you."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Will Graham could use a breakthrough."

Alana Bloom: "Being broken was his breakthrough."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Being broken was yours. Will hasn't had his breakthrough yet. He's saving that for Dr. Lecter."

Alana Bloom: "Would be the best thing for his therapy, really."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Only a matter of time before they are back in each other's orbit. Shame not to have the good seats. If only to support poor Will."

Alana Bloom: "That would require some manipulation."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Some English on the ball, as it were."

Double doors in the dark open.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY

Blinds are drawn; streaks of sunlight cut through the darkness, illuminating motes of dust hanging in the air. Alana Bloom enters, moving into the room in a wheelchair. She remembers Hannibal Lecter throwing himself at the pantry door. Slam. She stares at the spot where she remembers it happening.

Alana Bloom moves through the room. One hand slides along the table, leaving a trail in the accumulated dust. Silence. And then, a faint whisper.

Hannibal Lecter: "You were so afraid of me. That last time I saw you... before the last time I saw you..."

The wheel of Alana's wheelchair squeaks on the wood floor and the whispering abruptly stops. She continues into the kitchen.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Alana Bloom wheels into the darkened kitchen.

Hannibal Lecter: "Hello, Alana."

Alana Bloom startles as she sees not Hannibal Lecter, but Will Graham sitting on the bloodstained floor, leaning against the kitchen cabinet where he fell after being gutted.

Will Graham: "What are you doing here?"

Alana Bloom: "I guess I'm looking for you."

Will Graham: "That's a good guess."

Alana Bloom: "What are you doing here?"

Will Graham: "Visiting old friends. Constructing an exhibit in my mind, well-spaced and lighted, keyed to the memories of what happened here."

Alana Bloom: "You're not tempted to forget?"

Will Graham: "I don't want to forget. I'm building rooms in my memory palace for all my friends."

Alana Bloom: "Friendship is blackmail elevated to the level of love."

Will Graham: "A mutually-unspoken pact to ignore the worst in one another in order to continue enjoying the best."

Alana Bloom: "After everything he's done, can you still ignore the worst in him?"

Will Graham considers for a long moment.

Will Graham: "I came here to be alone, Alana. If you wouldn't mind."

He holds her gaze. Finally, she moves away, disappearing into the dining room, leaving him alone. Abigail Hobbs leans against the wall next to Will Graham, her throat cut, covered in blood. As she offers him a small, encouraging smile.

A metal sign on the gate of Muskrat Farm reads: "ABSOLUTELY NO DOGS ALLOWED." Alana's car enters the grounds.

EXT. MUSKRAT FARM - DRIVEWAY - DAY

Alana Bloom gingerly gets out of her car, leaning on a cane. She wears a stylish trouser suit. Margot Verger is dismounting a horse and is approached by a groom. She watches Alana getting out of her car with interest.

Alana Bloom: "Hello. I'm Dr. Bloom."

Margot Verger: "You're the new psychiatrist."

Alana Bloom: "I went one exit too far on the expressway. Came back along the service road. I'm not sure if this is my entrance."

Margot Verger: "This can be your entrance. Isn't easy to find, first time you come. Walk him back. I'm Margot Verger."

Alana Bloom: "A witchy beauty about this place."

Margot Verger: "Yes, there is. You should see it in the spring. Riot of lilacs in the wind smells nothing at all like the stockyards and slaughterhouses one usually associates with the Verger name."

Alana steers the mild flirtation back to business.

Alana Bloom: "Can you please let your brother know I'm here?"

Margot Verger: "He knows."

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MAIN ROOM - DAY

Margot Verger leads Alana Bloom toward a large, open room with a stone balcony that looks out over miles of national forest. Silhouetted in his wheelchair, in front of the balcony doors, is Mason Verger. They pause at the entrance.

Margot Verger: "Some people have trouble talking with Mason. If it bothers you, or you can't take it, I can answer any questions you might have."

Alana Bloom: "Thank you."

Mason Verger: "Margot, you can leave us now."

Margot Verger: "If my brother offers you chocolate, politely refuse."

She moves off, then turns to watch Alana Bloom, intrigued. As she turns away, it is Alana's turn to look back—she turns back to Margot Verger, thoughtful, as she watches her walk away.

Mason Verger: "Good afternoon, Dr. Bloom."

Alana Bloom: "Good afternoon, Mr. Verger."

Mason Verger: "Have a seat."

As Alana approaches the chair beside Mason, the angle slowly reveals his destroyed face in all its glory. Alana does not blink, merely taking her seat.

Mason Verger: "I thank God for what happened. It was my salvation. Have you accepted Jesus, Dr. Bloom? Do you have faith?"

Alana Bloom: "I was raised in a religious atmosphere, Mr. Verger. Whatever that left me with, it's not religion."

Mason Verger: "Left me with more. I'm free, Dr. Bloom. I'm right with the Risen Jesus and it's all okay now. Nobody beats the Riz. He will rise me up and smite mine enemies and I will hear the lamentations of their women. That was once you, I'm told. Dr. Lecter got deeper inside you than he did any of us."

Mason chokes on saliva, stops talking. Alana stares.

Alana Bloom: "Would you like me to get the nurse?"

Alana rises, but Mason's voice stops her.

Mason Verger: "I'm fine. It's all okay now."

Alana Bloom: "You're supposed to share any relevant information you find on Hannibal Lecter with the FBI. Have you always done that?"

Mason Verger: "Not exactly. I want you to understand, this is not a revenge thing, Dr. Bloom. I have forgiven Dr. Lecter as Our Saviour forgave the Roman soldiers."

Alana Bloom: "Forgiveness isn't all it's cracked up to be, Mr. Verger. I don't need religion to appreciate the idea of Old Testament revenge."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - PANTRY - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

Jack Crawford has his back to the pantry door, gasping as he tries to staunch the blood pulsing from his neck wound. We hear the subtle thudding of his heart, gradually slowing as he loses blood. Jack Crawford takes out his phone and dials a number. As it rings, we view his heart inside his chest cavity. It is beating weakly. Getting slower... slower... the blood pumping sluggishly out of it now. The ringing of his phone fades along with his heartbeat.

His blood emerges from the neck wound. But, as it beads, it now floats upward, drop by drop, like bubbles in water, coming together in the air above his head. The blood streams and collects as if filling a transparent Jack Crawford-shaped vessel looking down on the dying man.

Jack Crawford is looking upward as his life leaves his body and forms above him as something new. From above, Jack's eyes close and he gives in to blood loss. The heartbeat stops. This is an out-of-body experience.

Bella Crawford: "Hello? Jack? Jack? Jack? Are you there?"

A faint flicker of recognition crosses his lifeless eyes. In slow motion, the bloody Jack above him bursts and rains down in a horizontal wave. As its crest is about to impact, a single drop of blood splashes on his cheek and we hear his heartbeat return with a corresponding thud.

INT. HOSPITAL - JACK CRAWFORD'S ROOM - NIGHT

The heartbeat becomes the regular beeping of a heart monitor. Jack's eyes flicker as he wakes up. He looks around and sees another bed. Another patient: his wife, Bella Crawford. She is deeply ill, almost ethereal, but still a beautiful, nourishing sight. She is asleep in a parallel hospital bed, her hand bridging the gap by holding his.

Emotion rises in Jack and he struggles to maintain. After a moment, Bella opens her eyes.

Jack Crawford: "I heard your voice."

She smiles faintly.

Bella Crawford: "I'm looking after you now."

Jack Crawford: "Did I die?"

Bella Crawford: "Evidently, you did a lot of things. Dying may have been among them. For once, I'm glad you're stubborn."

Jack Crawford: "What's good for the goose."

Bella Crawford: "You're not going into the ground with me, Jack. So stop trying."

Jack Crawford: "I got away relatively unscathed."

Bella Crawford: "Your face is all scars, if you know how to look. No room for any more."

Jack Crawford: "I was dead. I knew I was dead. All I had left to do was die. It's a familiar feeling for you. I thought if I could hear your voice, neither of us would die alone."

Bella Crawford: "I don't mind the solitude."

Jack Crawford: "It's indignity you can't stand."

Bella Crawford: "You never made me feel undignified. I'm not afraid of dying. I'm not afraid of what it will be like to be dead. I'm more curious about any what-if than I am any absolute. Easy for me, I can sour-grapes life all I want. You don't get to."

Jack smiles through the threat of tears.

Bella Crawford: "You can do something I can't. You can cut out what's killing you."

In a series of slow-motion shots, fluid streams and collects over glassy graphic shapes. It is scotch streaming and collecting over three glasses of ice, filling the final one. Through the glasses of whiskey, the distorted images of three men are visible. Jack Crawford raises a glass with Brian Zeller and Jimmy Price.

INT. BAU - JACK CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - DAY

The three men clink glasses.

Brian Zeller: "It's the end of an era."

Jack Crawford: "It's the end of something. I should have taken compassionate leave when it was still my choice."

Jimmy Price: "Compassionate leave?"

Brian Zeller: "His wife."

Jimmy Price: "Still? I knew she was sick before. I didn't know she was still sick."

Brian Zeller: "It's a terminal situation."

Jimmy Price: "I didn't know that. Nobody told me that. Why didn't you tell me that?"

Brian Zeller: "It's not discussed."

Jimmy Price: "Clearly, it's not discussed with me."

Brian Zeller: "I was being discreet."

Jimmy Price: "Since when? I'm so sorry, Jack."

Brian Zeller: "Don't tell him you're sorry. It's awkward. It doesn't help him. This is why you weren't told."

There is a knock at the door and Jack looks past them both to see Dr. Frederick Chilton.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Gentlemen. Am I interrupting?"

Jack Crawford: "Yes, please."

Later, Jack Crawford continues to pack as Dr. Frederick Chilton studies him.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Every useful hoop our mind can jump through begins with some degree of attention. Focus is the most important thing any of us can do. You're losing focus, Jack."

Jack Crawford: "I have refocused."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "What do they say about forced retirement at the FBI? You fall in love with the Bureau, but it does not fall in love with you."

Jack Crawford: "Behavioral Sciences doesn't have the resources. Homeland Security is the priority. Terrorists are more frightening than psychopaths."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Not to me."

Jack Crawford: "The first thing you did after getting shot in the face was copyright 'Hannibal the Cannibal.'"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "A catchphrase is a trademark and protected as a form of property. You're alive because you didn't pull that glass out of your neck. Will Graham is alive because Hannibal Lecter likes him that way."

Jack Crawford: "Maybe it's one of those friendships that ends after the disemboweling."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I would argue, with these two, that's tantamount to flirtation. Will is going to lead you right to him."

Jack Crawford: "No. Not me, he isn't. I've let them both go. I've let it all go."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "You dangle Will Graham and now you cut bait. You are letting Hannibal have him hook, line and sinker."

Jack Crawford puts the lid on the box and then picks up a photograph of Bella, and his coat, and exits past Dr. Frederick Chilton.

Jack Crawford: "If you'll excuse me, Dr. Chilton, I like to be home when my wife wakes up in the evenings."

Dr. Frederick Chilton stares into middle distance as Jack leaves.

INT. JACK CRAWFORD'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DUSK

Jack Crawford reads in a wing chair by a low lamp. He faces two double beds, both raised on blocks to hospital height. One is empty, and in the other lies his wife, Bella. He can hear her breath through her mouth. Her hair is in a loose tangle, eyes closed, head turned on the pillow.

She misses a breath. Jack looks up from his book, over his glasses. He puts the book down. Bella breathes again, a flutter and then a full breath. Jack rises to put his hand on her, to take her blood pressure and her pulse. The hair on her head moves gently on her breath. His fingers rest against the veins in Bella's hand. We hear the gentle pulse of her heartbeat. Low and slow. The room is silent, tender.

Jack pads to the closet and turns on the light. Two clipboards hang on the inside of the door. On one he notes Bella's pulse and blood pressure. A needle punctures the rubber seal of a medicine vial and draws fluid into the hypodermic. Practiced at giving Bella her medicine, Jack injects the needle into the IV feed.

He returns to his seat and reaches for his book, but doesn't read. He watches Bella sleep. There is a catch in her breathing and she stirs in her bed. Jack takes her hand. She takes a deep breath and lets it out. Her eyes are open, empty, lifeless. He puts his face close to hers.

Jack Crawford: "Bella?"

He continues to hold her hand, putting his ear to her chest. We hear her pulse—throb, throb, throb and then her heart stops. Nothing to hear; only a curious rushing sound.

Jack gathers Bella to him on the bed, sitting against the headboard, holding her to his chest while her brain dies. He just looks at her, a heartbroken smile. He brushes the hair from her face, kisses her and regards her. Alone.

INT. JACK CRAWFORD'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Jack Crawford sits in a chair, staring at the empty bed where his wife died. Bella steps into the frame, more than healthy, actively alive. She holds up a white dress in front of her body and smiles. Jack smiles back, then his gaze drifts back to the empty bed.

Jack Crawford: "I love you in white."

Bella Crawford: "Jack?"

Jack turns and sees it is Alana Bloom holding the white dress in front of her. He nods.

Jack Crawford: "She'll look beautiful."

Jack stands and crosses to the window, looking outside.

Jack Crawford: "Bella's dead. That should change the view from these windows. It's not right this view stays the same."

Bella is expertly prepared for burial. Her eyes are closed, but she feels somewhat alive. In precise and detailed shots, we see the minutiae of Jack getting ready to bury her. Her fingernails are clipped, filed and polished, her wedding ring visible. His fingers slip his wedding ring over his knuckle. Her hair is brushed and combed with utmost care. His hand brushes across his skull. Makeup is applied to her eyelid. His knuckle brushes a single tear from the corner of his eye. Fingers button every button of her white dress carefully. His black necktie tightens into a knot.

Jack Crawford has a faint smile tugging at the corners of his mouth as he stares into middle distance. He sees Bella, stunning in white, moving down the darkened aisle of a church, everything but her falling to darkness. She moves toward him, a bride-to-be. She smiles. As she comes closer and closer, Jack enters the frame and kisses her gently on the forehead. The camera pulls back, turning to reveal Bella is in her coffin, wearing white, and Jack stands over her in a funeral suit.

INT. CHAPEL - DAY

Bella's casket is surrounded by floral arrangements. One particularly gorgeous one attracts Jack's attention. A cream-colored envelope is tucked into the bouquet. The handwriting—exquisite calligraphic cursive—is unmistakable. Jack tears it open. The card inside is beautiful cotton-fiber ecru stationery, the letter written in the same distinctive hand. Jack slowly sits to read the card. We hear Hannibal's voice reading, quoting John Donne.

Hannibal Lecter: "'O wrangling schools, that search what fire / Shall burn this world, had none the wit... Unto this knowledge to aspire / That this her fever might be it?' I'm so sorry about Bella, Jack."

The letter is signed, "Hannibal Lecter." A single tear splashes the page, blurring the ink. It is now Jack who holds the letter. He sits in the pew, alone with Bella's body. The silhouette of someone entering the chapel in the deep background quietly approaches him.

Will Graham sits down next to him. Jack glances at Will and blinks, doing his best not to shake his head.

Jack Crawford: "I opened my eyes this morning and, in that moment, before the weight of the day came for me, I didn't think about Bella dying. I thought about the last thing she said to me: 'What's going on in the yard?' Was her way of telling me to feed the birds. She kept hoping to die when I was out of the room. But I was there when her heart stopped. I held her until her brain died."

Will Graham: "I hope that she's somewhere today, Jack. And that she's comfortable."

Jack Crawford: "I hope she can see into my heart. She had to die on me. I knew it was coming, but it smarts. I know what's coming for you, Will. You don't have to die on me, too."

Jack hands Will Hannibal's envelope. As Will takes out the note, Jack quietly gathers his coat and walks outside. Will is left reading Hannibal's letter.

Mason Verger is wearing a warming mask that gives him the appearance of enjoying a high-end spa treatment, as classical music plays.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MASON'S BEDROOM - DAY

Mason Verger's major-domo nurse, Cordell, hovers behind him, applying pressure to the mask.

Mason Verger: "Ow."

Cordell carefully peels the warming mask off, discarding it in a tray. His hands now move across Mason's scarred face, gently massaging the tight, hard skin. Mason winces in pain.

Mason Verger: "I'm saying 'ow.'"

Cordell: "Blood is flowing. Nerves are intact. Pain is a good thing."

Mason Verger: "This is why you can never legally work in the health industry again, Cordell. They were going to throw you away. Would have been wasted. You have witnessed suffering that would have moved anyone else to rage or tears. But not you. Ow."

Cordell: "Scar tissue is an awesome demonstration of self-preservation. The flesh's fight to exist, down to the most basic cell, is a wonder."

Cordell lifts the bedcovers, squeezes lotion into his palm and begins massaging it into Mason's withering legs.

Mason Verger: "At Communions around the earth, the devout believe that, through the miracle of transubstantiation, they eat the flesh and blood of Christ."

Cordell: "It's an impressive ceremony."

Mason Verger: "I need to prepare for an even-more-impressive ceremony with no transubstantiation necessary. Cordell, I've known you to be absolutely reliable and capable of most anything. Is that true?"

Cordell: "It is not untrue."

Mason Verger: "I pay you a large salary to be responsible for my care and feeding."

Cordell: "And all that entails."

Mason Verger: "And all that entails. I would like you to begin arrangements for Dr. Hannibal Lecter to be eaten alive."

Cordell doesn't pause, just continues massaging Mason's legs.

Cordell: "Do you have a preference for how you would like him prepared?"

Mason Verger: "Oh, Cordell... if I had lips, I would smile."

We see Mason on the night he was de-faced. His mouth looks like dentures embedded in lasagna. A bright light shines on him. He's on an operating table. We see various facial reconstruction procedures. A cheese grater-style blade shaves off thick layers of skin. Strip after strip of flesh is puzzled together in a lattice, grafted onto his denuded cheeks and chin. Multiple sets of hands ebb and flow in overlapping images. Cartilage is borrowed from his ears to reconstruct his nose. Needles and thread stab and pull, sinking into the strips of skin and out again, locking each piece together and fastening them to the face. His face becomes a hellish plaid composed of red seams, post-op. He appears to be studying the remains of his face in a mirror.

Mason Verger: "Good as new."

EXT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - BALCONY - DAY

The camera moves over acres of forest until it finds Mason Verger, who sits in his wheelchair on the balcony, gazing out upon the land. His weak fingers operate the joystick that rotates his wheelchair. He swivels to take in more of the view. Alana Bloom appears over his shoulder, limping on her cane.

Mason Verger: "All this time he eludes us, got away clean. It's as though Dr. Lecter has dropped off the earth."

Alana Bloom: "Hannibal obviously has good papers and money. Europe is where a man of his tastes would settle."

Mason Verger: "His tastes are very specific."

She takes a seat, speaking calmly, therapeutically.

Alana Bloom: "That's how you'll find him. The wine... the truffles. Taste in all things will be a constant between Dr. Lecter's lives. His name will change, but his taste will not. And he is not a man who denies himself."

Mason Verger: "Of course you know what he favors. Did he favor you, Dr. Bloom?"

Alana Bloom: "I think I amused him. Things either amuse him or they don't. If they don't... well, you didn't."

Mason Verger: "Do you ever feel that he genuinely cared about you?"

Alana Bloom: "I have no idea how Dr. Lecter genuinely feels about me. The last we spoke, he promised he'd kill me."

Mason Verger: "That's fairly definitive. How does it feel to use understanding as a predator's tool?"

Alana Bloom: "I'm using it as I've always used it. As a psychiatric tool. Bâtard-Montrachet. A pretty rarefied Chardonnay. I would check importers and dealers for case sales or regular purchases. You can set up the search fields in the International Commerce Database."

Mason Verger: "Why not take this to Jack Crawford?"

Alana Bloom: "Jack's done at the FBI. A footnote in his own Evil Minds Museum. When your father died, he left you with a U.S. congressman and a member of the House Judiciary Oversight Committee who just can't seem to make ends meet without you."

Mason Verger: "I'll look through my pockets and see who I can find. I'm curious, Dr. Bloom, how have I found you in my pocket? Tell me, I'm all ears. They've just been redistributed."

Alana Bloom: "You're preparing the theater of Hannibal's death. I'm only doing my part to get him to the stage."

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Headlights crawl their way up Will Graham's driveway. It's Jack's car. Another car sits outside. Jack strides to the house, seeing lights inside. Someone's home. Jack climbs the front steps and the dogs start barking from inside the house. As he approaches the front door, it opens and Alana Bloom emerges.

Jack Crawford: "Where's Will?"

Jack looks at the house, a sense of defeat and disappointment coming over him, knowing he's lost Will.

Alana Bloom: "He's already gone, Jack. Will knows what he has to do. Do you?"

Jack doesn't answer; he turns and strides to his car. Alana watches him go.

The blue water of the ocean. Morning. No land in sight. A balmy day. Light waves, small whitecaps forming and disappearing. A boat's prow slices the water, cutting the waves at a good clip. It's the NOLA—the sailing yacht we saw Will working on. And at the helm is Will Graham. The wind tousles his hair. He looks to the horizon, an intensity in his eyes. He looks almost hungry.

As Will works the sails, we see steel beams being welded together. Thick plexiglas is lifted into place. Stout nylon net is stretched taut. Something is being built.

EXT. ATLANTIC OCEAN - DAY

The vastness of the sea stretches out before Will Graham, its openness and possibility.

Then, we see a cage. This is what was being built. A fearsome cage for a fearsome prisoner. It is finished. The only thing missing is the prisoner himself.

INT. BSHCI - BASEMENT - DAY

Dr. Frederick Chilton and Alana Bloom stand before the cage, side by side. From behind, the two of them admire the cage. Partners in this hunt.