INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

A look of realization washes across Will Graham's features. He stands in front of his window.

The black stag crashes through the window in slow motion. He scrambles out of the way. The black stag lands in Will's living room, shaking glass off its ebony hide. The room is dark with shadow. It sees Will and charges.

Will tries to hold it back, but is driven backward to the wall. Its antlers slam into the wall on either side of Will and pierce it. The black stag is now the Man Stag. They are terrifyingly face to face for a moment. A man and his nemesis.

And then Will head-butts the man stag, hard and sudden, in the face. It staggers back as Will drives it to the ground. He rains heavy blows on the man stag beneath him, punching and punching. Blood flecks his face as he pants with effort.

As his fists pummel the man stag, we see, in brief flashes, Hannibal Lecter staring back at Will, grinning a bloody grin.

Will grabs the antlers of the man stag and, with huge force, twists them. A loud crack echoes as the neck breaks. Will gasps, looking down on what he has done.

Randall Tier now lies beneath Will, his face bloody and battered, head twisted at a strange angle. As Will contemplates his actions, the view moves off him into blackness, finding Hannibal Lecter amidst the shadows.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter is facing Will Graham across the dining table. Randall Tier's corpse lies across the table, his head lolling at an unnatural angle. A piece of paper is pinned to his chest. On it is written: "Return to Sender." Finally Will steps out of the shadows.

Will Graham: "I'd say this makes us even. I sent someone to kill you, you sent someone to kill me. Even-steven."

Hannibal Lecter: "Consider it an act of reciprocity. One positive action begets another."

Will Graham: "Polite society normally puts such taboos on taking a life."

Hannibal Lecter: "Without death, we'd be at a loss. It's the prospect of death that drives us to greatness. Did you kill him with your hands?"

Will holds up his bloody, bruised knuckles.

Will Graham: "It was very intimate."

Hannibal Lecter: "It deserves intimacy. You were Randall Tier's final enemy."

A porcelain pan is filled with warm water and Epsom salts. Will's bloody, bruised hands are submerged, tinging the water pink. They sit at one end of the dining room table, Randall Tier's body still splayed across it. Hannibal Lecter removes Will's hands from the Epsom salts bath, drying them. Will stares absently as Hannibal Lecter treats his wounds.

Hannibal Lecter: "Don't go inside, Will. You'll want to retreat, you'll want it as we want to jump from balconies, as the glint of the rails tempts us when we hear the approaching train."

Hannibal Lecter applies salve to the cuts and bruises on Will's hands, gently rubbing the ointment into his open wounds.

Hannibal Lecter: "Stay with me."

Hannibal Lecter carefully wraps gauze bandages around Will's hands.

Will Graham: "Where else am I going to go?"

Hannibal Lecter: "You have everywhere to go. As long as you buttress your mind against deterring forces like guilt. You should be quite pleased. I am."

Will stares at Randall Tier's body on the table before him.

Will Graham: "Of course you are."

Hannibal Lecter: "When you were killing Randall, did you fantasize you were killing me?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

That makes Hannibal Lecter smile.

Hannibal Lecter: "Most of what we do, most of what we believe, is motivated by death."

Will Graham: "I don't think I've ever felt more alive than when I was killing him."

Hannibal Lecter: "Then you owe Randall Tier a debt. How will you repay him?"

Will considers that.

INT. MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY - DINOSAUR ROOM - NIGHT

The large room is dark. Overhead lights begin to flicker to life, and the view moves along the floor as the exhibits come into view. Moving through the long-dead fossils, faster and faster, we find drops of blood, thick and viscous, on the floor.

The view travels upward to reveal Randall Tier's head, or more specifically, the top of it. It has been taken off at the top jaw and placed atop the skull of the sabertooth cat Randall was building. A nightmarish form of a man's head, eyes staring, with the savage fangs and lower jaw of the great predator.

The creature is now a nightmarish hybrid. The cat's skeletal torso meets Randall's arms and legs, which have been used to replace the cat's limbs. The bloody flesh at odds with the bare ivory of the bone. A grotesque amalgam of man and beast, of long-dead bones and recently-living flesh. This is the point of view of a grim-faced Jack Crawford.

INT. MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY - DINOSAUR ROOM - NIGHT

The view pulls back from the Randall-tooth display, revealing Will Graham taking it in as he approaches. Jack Crawford and Hannibal Lecter follow close behind Will.

Jack Crawford: "His killer chose not to dispose of his body, but to display it."

Hannibal Lecter: "A jarring reminder of death's informality."

Jack Crawford: "Randall Tier was denied a respectable end that he himself denied others."

Hannibal Lecter: "Dissection is disgrace. This is a humiliation, a final indignity."

Will Graham: "He isn't mocking him. This isn't disdain. He's commemorating him."

Hannibal Lecter: "This killer has no fear for the consequences of what he's done."

Will Graham: "No guilt."

Will Graham approaches the Randall-tooth display, leaving Jack and Hannibal behind. The organic hum of his circulatory system grows loud in his ears. He closes his eyes.

A pendulum swings in the blackness of his mind.

Will's eyes open. The museum is now dark, falling away to blackness, a void beyond the Randall-tooth and Will.

Will Graham: "Hello again."

A disembodied voice is both in the room and in Will's head.

Randall Tier (V.O.): "Come closer."

Will takes a step closer, but evidently not close enough.

Randall Tier (V.O.): "Closer. I want to see you."

The view pushes in close on the Randall-tooth's face, the freakish maw, into the eyes as they open. Will reacts to a heavy sound; something is moving in the darkness around him. An unseen beast's footsteps circle him.

Randall Tier (V.O.): "Can you see you?"

Will Graham: "Clearer and clearer. You forced me to kill you."

Randall Tier (V.O.): "I didn't force you to enjoy it. You made me a monument."

Will moves around the Randall-tooth, movement in the shadows opposite whatever is circling, tracking his movements. Randall Tier, naked and primal, is a haunting silhouette in the shadows.

Will Graham: "You're welcome."

Randall Tier (V.O.): "The monument is not to me. It's to you. This is pride."

Will Graham: "I gave you what you want. This is who you are. What you feel finally matches the reality of what I see."

Randall Tier (V.O.): "This is my becoming."

Randall Tier finally steps out of the shadows, revealing mandible-like tusks hang where his jaw should be. A nightmare inverse of the Randall-tooth, in human form.

Randall Tier (V.O.): "And yours."

Will shakes his head; this is not his becoming.

Will Graham: "This is my design."

The lights are once more bright on the crime scene. Jack and Hannibal step into focus behind him, like the angel and devil on his shoulders. Will turns to them.

Will Graham: "He knew his killer. There is a familiarity here. It was someone who met him, understood him. It was someone like him. Different pathology, same instinct."

Jack Crawford: "His killer empathized with him?"

Will Graham: "Don't mistake empathy for understanding, Jack. If there's anything, it's envy."

Jack Crawford: "Envy?"

Will Graham: "Randall Tier came into his own much easier than whoever killed him."

Hannibal Lecter: "This is a fledgling killer. He's never killed before, not like this."

Will Graham: "No, not like this. This is the nightmare that followed him out of his dreams."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter sits still in the chair as Will Graham moves around him, picking things up, putting them down, amped somehow. An athlete after the race, adrenalin still coursing his system.

Hannibal Lecter: "You're playing a dangerous game."

Will Graham: "We once caught a killer who went to his victims' funerals just so he could console their loved ones."

Hannibal Lecter: "Jack Crawford is no grieving widow. Not so long ago, we were both suspects for crimes just like this."

Will turns to Hannibal Lecter.

Will Graham: "That's why I can't be a suspect this time. Or you. When you framed Chilton, you exonerated me and yourself. He was the broom that swept our tracks."

Hannibal Lecter does not react to this.

Hannibal Lecter: "Why didn't you dispose of the body? It was the prudent course."

Will Graham: "Randall deserved to be seen."

Hannibal Lecter: "Randall, or your work on him?"

Will Graham: "You called it 'artistry.' Is that how you see your own efforts?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I also called it 'savagery.' You mutilated the body. Displayed it."

Will Graham: "The bird is leaving the nest, Dr. Lecter. Spreading his wings."

Hannibal Lecter: "A newly-fledged bird is at his most vulnerable. Still relies on his parents for food. He can fly, but he has to learn to hunt."

Will Graham: "And they learn via imitation. There is a mantra in medical tuition you must know: watch one, do one, teach one. I've seen plenty, Dr. Lecter."

Hannibal Lecter doesn't answer.

Hannibal Lecter: "How did it feel? To manipulate what was a living man into a message all of your own."

Will Graham: "Like I wasn't finished till I had."

Hannibal Lecter absorbs this.

Hannibal Lecter: "Did you take a trophy too, Will?"

Will Graham: "A memento of my first rodeo? What do you think?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I think it would be the act of a serial killer."

Will Graham: "By definition, one body doesn't make me a serial killer."

EXT. MUSKRAT FARM - STABLES - DAY

Hooves move at a pace. The flanks of a beautiful horse, booted feet in stirrups. The horse's proud head as it is galloped. Hands urging at the reins. The reins are slackened and the horse slows, his breath misting the air. A gallop becomes a trot, and we see he is ridden by Margot Verger. In full riding gear, she walks the horse toward a large, handsome brick structure.

INT. MUSKRAT FARM - STABLES - DAY

The large doors open dramatically as Margot Verger walks her horse inside. Stable hands work in the background. Margot unbridles the horse, puts on its halter and removes its saddle. She brushes the horse, stroking it as she grooms. Behind her, someone clears their throat.

It is Mason Verger. He smiles a dazzling smile. He is good-looking, wears his wealth and power easily. He holds a suckling pig in his arms like a baby. Margot turns back to her horse grooming.

Mason Verger: "Have a good ride?"

Margot sighs, hands her horse's reins to a valet.

Margot Verger: "Walk him back."

The valet walks the horse to its stall and secures it.

Margot Verger: "What do you want?"

Mason Verger: "I want to share something with you."

EXT./INT. MUSKRAT FARM - PIG BARN - DAY

Mason Verger leads Margot through wooden doors and into a church-like space with a large metal cage-like structure.

Mason Verger: "After Papa died, I had a Christmas epiphany. I've seen exotic pigs from all over the world. What would happen if I brought together the best of all I had seen."

He's excited. A large square metal structure is revealed, slatted, with an open central area. A maze.

Margot Verger: "You built a maze. Shudder to think."

Carlo Deogracias works at a table to one side of the platform, a stag's tooth flicking in and out of his mouth. He is stuffing ground meat, chickens and vegetables into the legs of an effigy. A smart suit tied at the wrists and bulging with food. A meatloaf for a head.

Mason Verger: "I feel like Stradivarius approaching his worktable. Our father was a pioneer of livestock production. I think he'd have been proud of all my efforts."

Carlo finishes stuffing the effigy and ties off the last leg with string. Incongruously, he squirts the effigy with scent from a bottle of perfume.

Mason Verger: "A pig is not like other animals. There is a spark of intelligence and a terrible practicality in pigs."

Mason nods at Carlo who hoists the effigy in his arms and walks past them, onto the roof of the maze, and attaches the effigy to an overhead hook.

Margot Verger: "You have an unparalleled understanding of piggishness."

Mason Verger: "Your mouth gets rough when you're scared, Margot. Tough as a livery pony who is resentful of the bit."

Carlo is now using a winch to lower the effigy. Upright, it resembles a man much more. Meat oozing round the bindings. Carlo pulls a lever and there is a sudden rush of feet, and something huge enters the maze. Through the slats we can see glimpses of a herd of terrible swine. They squeal in excitement and hurry toward the center.

Mason Verger: "The structure is designed to excite and antagonize the pigs."

Margot looks horrified.

Mason Verger: "Taken awhile to find the perfect mix. Any pig will eat a dead man, but to get him to eat a live one, some education is required."

Mason respectfully indicates Carlo.

Mason Verger: "Carlo is experienced in this field and actually fed a man to pigs in Tuscany twenty years ago."

Margot recognizes the clothes on the effigy.

Margot Verger: "That's one of my suits."

Mason Verger: "I'll buy you a new one. We stuff clothes with meat, scent it with human smells. Play screams every time they're fed. Come the real thing, we won't need the recording."

Mason presses a button and Margot starts as the sound of screams plays on hidden speakers. Mason beams at her. He nods to Carlo, who starts lowering the meat-headed effigy toward the clamoring pigs.

Mason Verger: "It's not just about making Papa proud. It's about us. It's about family. I want you to be proud of me too, Margot. You're all I have. And I'm all you have."

The effigy starts shaking as its lower half is torn apart. Margot is managing her horror. Mason grins at her.

Mason Verger: "This little piggy went 'eee-eee-eee,' all the way home."

The loud feeding of the pigs is all we can hear.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Hannibal Lecter sits with Margot Verger.

Hannibal Lecter: "You know you will have to kill him, Margot. You've known it for years."

Margot Verger: "I may have missed my opportunity. Mason hired a stocky, florid man in an alpine hat. I'm told a leading practitioner in the profession of making people disappear."

Hannibal Lecter: "Was that the nature of your brother's threat?"

Margot Verger: "In no uncertain terms, I'm to behave myself or I'll be fed to the pigs."

Hannibal Lecter studies her a moment.

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you know why you failed to murder your brother, Margot?"

Margot Verger: "Poor planning."

Hannibal Lecter: "You failed to murder your brother because you still love him."

That strikes Margot harder than she would have thought.

Hannibal Lecter: "In love, you take leave of your senses, but in hatred, you must be present to calculate your actions."

Margot Verger: "I'm present."

Hannibal Lecter: "Then allow yourself to hate him."

Margot goes silent, contemplative.

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you think Mason will just give you what you want? You'll be begging him the rest of your life. Did begging help when he tore you? Same thing as taking his chocolate and letting him have his way."

Margot Verger: "I thank God I didn't kill him. Papa's will was very clear. Upon the passing of his beloved son Mason, in the absence of a legitimate male heir, the sole beneficiary shall be the Southern Baptist Convention. Not me."

Hannibal Lecter: "Even in death, Mason would take everything from you. One of the most-powerful forces that shapes us as human beings is the desire to leave a legacy. What legacy will you leave behind?"

Margot Verger: "I don't get a legacy."

Hannibal Lecter: "Unless you make one."

INT. FREDDIE LOUNDS'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

A collage of research covers a wall: pictures, articles, reports. Will Graham, Hannibal Lecter, Dr. Frederick Chilton and Jack Crawford are prominent. Long-lens photos of them all, caught unawares. At a desk beneath, Freddie Lounds sits, typing up from a scrawled pad of notes.

A knock at the door. She saves and closes the laptop. Stands and checks herself in the mirror. Primps. And then goes to the door and opens it to find Will Graham. She smiles.

INT. FREDDIE LOUNDS'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Freddie now sits at the table, opposite Will, checking her recorder as Will scans the wall.

Freddie Lounds: "I raised the ante on my publishing deal. There's been movie interest. Hollywood is a fine place for the obnoxious and wealthy."

Will Graham: "You're not wealthy, Freddie."

Freddie Lounds: "I will be. I'm a pariah among journalists because I took a different faith. But I'm putting that faith in you."

Will finally sits at the table and she presses "record."

Freddie Lounds: "Let's talk Chesapeake Ripper. Frederick Chilton. Who knew?"

Will Graham: "Who knew."

Freddie Lounds: "No one did. Nobody would. Not even you. You were so certain the Chesapeake Ripper was Hannibal Lecter, you tried to kill him."

Will Graham: "You neglected to say 'allegedly.'"

Freddie Lounds: "No, I didn't. Dr. Lecter's your psychiatrist again. What's up with that?"

Will Graham: "I was wrong about him. That's what's up with that."

Freddie Lounds: "Maybe you were. Maybe you weren't."

Will Graham: "Chilton was the Chesapeake Ripper."

Freddie Lounds: "The Chesapeake Ripper had surgical skills Frederick Chilton did not."

Will Graham: "They have the same profile."

Freddie Lounds: "Except Dr. Chilton was a woeful surgeon. Dangerous, even. I've been chatting with his old medical school chums. They say he fled to psychiatry to avoid embarrassment."

Will Graham: "My story with the Chesapeake Ripper already has an ending, Freddie."

Freddie Lounds: "Mine doesn't. Do you really think Dr. Chilton killed Abigail Hobbs? I don't. Even if I let this story go, I'll never let that go."

Will Graham: "Trust me, Freddie. Neither will I."

Freddie Lounds: "It's too bad Dr. Chilton was shot in the face. He's not exactly in the position to defend himself. Yet somehow, here you are in the position to defend Hannibal Lecter."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

A very subtle electric hum vibrates across the surface of an antenna. Fingertips reach into focus, creating an unsettling electric tone. Alana Bloom sits at the foot of the bed, wincing at the sounds she's manipulating from a sleek wooden box with dials and an antenna at one end and a metal loop at the other. A Theremin. Alana draws an even-more-ugly tone out of the instrument, winces.

Alana Bloom: "Sounds like I'm killing it."

Hannibal Lecter: "Don't kill it."

Hannibal Lecter sits behind her, straddling her. He slides his hands down her arms until he is cupping her hands in his. He guides her hands to the antenna, creating a sustained note.

Hannibal Lecter: "A theremin is an instrument which can create exquisite music without ever needing to be touched."

He nuzzles his head on her shoulder, kissing her neck.

Hannibal Lecter: "But it requires the rare gift of perfect pitch to play properly."

He smiles, his hands drift from hers, one moving along her thigh, the other over her stomach.

Hannibal Lecter: "Smaller movements. Feel the vibration move through you. Feel it here."

His hand moves between her breasts, pressing her sternum. Alana's hands move over the instrument and softer, eerier notes are played.

Alana Bloom: "Like composing in thin air."

Hannibal Lecter: "Thin air is a musician's canvas."

Alana Bloom: "It's a very psychological instrument."

Alana delights in the music, but more in Hannibal Lecter's touch, his hand disappearing in a caress between her thighs.

Hannibal Lecter: "As therapists, we work with people the same way. Never touching, but finding wavelengths and frequencies to affect change. Guiding them from dissonance toward composition."

Alana tries to focus beyond Hannibal Lecter's erotic touch.

Alana Bloom: "People are not instruments. Whatever it is you're playing, Hannibal, you have to listen very carefully to what you're creating."

Alana surrenders to Hannibal Lecter's nimble hands playing her.

Hannibal Lecter: "I am listening. I'm listening to you. You and I went so long in our friendship without ever touching, yet I always felt attuned to you."

Hannibal turns Alana's head and pulls her into a kiss.

INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

A knocking at the door. Will moves through the house to find Margot Verger at the door. She looks gorgeous, demure and softer than usual. Will smiles and lets her in. She waves a bottle of whiskey.

Margot Verger: "I've come to replenish your stores."

INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Margot and Will sit by the fire, drinking the whiskey.

Margot Verger: "Reasoning makes us human, but questioning the nature of our humanity makes us miserable."

Will Graham: "I'll drink to that."

Margot Verger: "What happened to your window?"

Will Graham: "A stag got lost in the storm. Came through the window. Got a few scratches getting him out."

Margot Verger: "Are you scarred?"

Will Graham: "More than I probably know."

Margot Verger: "Show you mine if you show me yours."

Will Graham: "I have the wrong parts for your proclivities, Margot."

Margot Verger: "It's not about proclivities, it's about trust."

Will Graham: "It's good to trust. Better not to."

Margot Verger: "My optimal level of trust is usually zero. But I trust you."

Will Graham: "I don't trust you."

Margot Verger: "I don't need you to 'trust' me."

Will Graham: "What do you need?"

She begins to unbutton her blouse and Will gently takes her hands and stops her. He then starts to unbutton her blouse himself, removing it, revealing a recent surgery scar across her shoulder. Below it, other scars blemish her skin.

Will Graham: "Who did this to you?"

Margot Verger: "My brother."

As Will runs his fingers over her scars, she unbuttons his shirt, revealing the raw, red gouges from Randall Tier's claws. Her hand moves across his chest to the jagged button scar where Jack Crawford shot him.

Margot Verger: "Who shot you?"

Will Graham: "A friend."

And with that, Will kisses Margot.

In Will Graham's bed, he lies back, Margot on top of him amidst the ruffled sheets. She bends to kiss him and Will rolls her over so that he is on top. From his point of view, it is now Alana Bloom he sees beneath him. He bends to kiss her passionately. Her arms circle his shoulders, drawing him closer.

As Alana pulls Will into another kiss, the view reveals it is Hannibal Lecter who comes into frame and kisses her as they make love in his bed.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

As Hannibal Lecter pulls back, the movement reveals Will Graham, the darkness of the room behind him. Beneath him, Alana; they kiss passionately, rolling onto their sides. Will opens one eye, looking beyond Alana to Hannibal Lecter watching him intently as he makes love to her. Alana turns away from Will and embraces Hannibal in a kiss, as if they were all three in the same bed together. Alana turns from Hannibal, back to Will, rolling on top of him.

From Will's point of view, Alana arches her back in climax and then collapses on him, heaving with satisfied exhaustion. She rolls onto her back. The view pulls back to reveal Alana flanked by Will and Hannibal in a psychological ménage à trois.

Will lies on his side, postcoital. He smiles. Alana leans into frame from the left and kisses him, then turns her back to spoon. She is now face to face with Hannibal, as if they were all three sharing the same bed. She kisses Hannibal. Sleepy. Happy.

INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Will lies on his side, the other side empty. He watches silently as Margot quietly dresses, lit by shadow and moonlight. Will watches and says nothing as she leaves.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Margot Verger is with Hannibal Lecter.

Margot Verger: "I had sex with one of your patients. Will Graham. How does that make you feel?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Curious. Will Graham is not a lesbian."

Margot Verger: "He sure made a go at it."

Hannibal Lecter smells the air, processing what he breathes in.

Hannibal Lecter: "Was Will aware of your intention to get pregnant, Margot?"

Margot Verger: "Wasn't it your intention for me to get pregnant, Dr. Lecter?"

Hannibal Lecter studies her a moment.

Hannibal Lecter: "Your life's been threatened. We experience a greater desire to have children when reminded of death."

Margot Verger: "The more we think about dying, the more we focus on what matters?"

Hannibal Lecter: "What matters to you, Margot? After you fought your brother so long."

Margot Verger: "You may not believe this, but it's not just the money. Well, it is a little bit, but I do want a child. It would be nice to have some small part of me get away from him."

Hannibal Lecter looks at Margot in a new light, curious.

Hannibal Lecter: "Much of what men do can be attributed to a desperate need to immortalize themselves. Women, however, can take a more direct route and create new life."

Margot Verger: "It's one way to have a legacy."

Hannibal Lecter: "It's one way to get what you need. You require an heir, Margot. If you were to have a boy..."

Margot Verger: "I would find a way to kill Mason and take everything back."

Hannibal Lecter: "I know you would, I like that about you. You're much more interesting, more capable than your brother. Professionally, this is the sort of catharsis I have to recommend."

EXT. GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY - NIGHT

We are at Georgetown University in Washington, DC.

EXT. GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY - DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHIATRY - NIGHT

An impressive stone facade. A small group of students crowd out of large wooden doors, onto the street. A moment behind them, Alana Bloom steps onto the street, holding a winsome smile that falls like a stone as she mutters a soft “Ugh” upon seeing Freddie Lounds loitering, evidently waiting for her.

Freddie Lounds: "I've always admired teachers. Moulding impressionable young minds. But you can only learn so much and live."

Alana Bloom: "No one likes a know-it-all."

Freddie Lounds: "Hannibal Lecter taught you when you were an impressionable young mind."

Alana Bloom: "Your book’s about Will Graham, Freddie, it’s not about me."

Freddie Lounds: "Were you sleeping with Dr. Lecter when you were his student? Or is that a recent development?"

Alana shoots Freddie a look.

Freddie Lounds: "You are sleeping with him. I was just guessing. Figured you had to be sleeping with one of them. Maybe that’s why you can’t see it."

Alana Bloom: "See what?"

Freddie Lounds: "Will Graham was right about Lecter. And I was right about Will Graham."

Alana Bloom: "I’m not having this or any other conversation with you, Freddie."

Alana turns to walk away.

Freddie Lounds: "Hannibal Lecter has had four patients die while under his care. Three former patients die after his care. Then there’s Will Graham."

Alana stops, turns back.

Freddie Lounds: "All that fuss about Dr. Lecter. Will even tried to kill him. Now they’re back in therapy together. And another former patient is dead."

Alana Bloom: "Will understands that Hannibal Lecter can help him."

Freddie Lounds: "Maybe what Will understands is, if you can’t beat Dr. Lecter, join him."

EXT. MUSKRAT FARM - PIG BARN - DAY

Hannibal Lecter arrives, stepping out of his blue Bentley and taking a deep breath. Carlo waits by the dramatic doors.

INT. MUSKRAT FARM - PIG BARN - DAY

Mason Verger watches his pigs with rapt attention. Behind him, Hannibal Lecter moves toward him. For a moment this looks ominous, but then Mason turns and smiles broadly at his visitor.

Mason Verger: "Dr. Lecter. I'm Mason Verger. So very nice to meet you. Thank you for accepting my invitation."

Hannibal Lecter shakes his hand. Carlo loiters behind Hannibal.

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm prone to old-world politeness. Would have seemed rude to say no."

Mason Verger: "Since I'm paying for Margot's therapy, I thought I should at the very least meet her psychiatrist."

Hannibal Lecter: "I enjoy putting a face to the name. I've never seen pigs like these."

Mason Verger: "They're a special breed. Product of many years and many litters."

Hannibal Lecter peers through the slats in the steel maze.

Hannibal Lecter: "Your ground note?"

Mason Verger: "Started with the giant forest pig. Six teats and thirty-eight chromosomes, a resourceful feeder and an opportunistic omnivore."

Hannibal Lecter: "Just like man. You bred the forest pig with a European wild boar."

Mason Verger: "Among others. You know pigs as well as you know people."

Hannibal Lecter: "I do know pigs."

Mason Verger: "Papa would've loved you. He could feel the face of a hog and tell by the bone structure its genetic makeup. Breeding was very important to our father. Margot really pissed him off with all her button stitching. No breeding there. Do you have a sister, Dr. Lecter?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I had a sister."

Mason Verger: "Then you must understand my need to protect Margot. Mostly from herself. She's pathological. I'm sure she's told you horrible things that I've done. She distorts reality to maximize her martyrdom."

Hannibal Lecter: "A charade for her resentments?"

Mason Verger: "I have always been the favorite. That's why Margot tried to kill me. Does she confess her plots to you?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I can't tell you what Margot's confessed to me. Fortunately for you, I can't tell anyone else. Even the worst of us needs someone to talk to, Mason. Have you ever considered therapy for yourself?"

Mason Verger: "Maybe I should. Can I have Carlo slaughter you a hog? A token of my appreciation for all that you do for Margot."

Hannibal Lecter: "Please, but I must insist on selecting my own pig. Always do."

Mason smiles at Hannibal Lecter, who does not respond.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

A magnificent shining roast pig, complete with apple in mouth, sits atop a garlanded platter. Hannibal Lecter carries the platter and places the pig on the table between Will Graham and Alana Bloom, who are sitting on either side of Hannibal's chair.

Hannibal Lecter: "Brined and roasted whole suckling pig. A gift from a friend."

He pours wine into glasses before taking his own seat.

Will Graham: "Your friend, not the pig's friend."

Hannibal Lecter begins to carve, not sure if he agrees with Will.

Hannibal Lecter: "There are those that raise livestock who have a genuine affection for them. The farmer who hand rears lambs loves them and sends them to slaughter."

Alana Bloom: "They love and kill what they love."

Hannibal Lecter: "A paradox."

Alana Bloom: "Freddie Lounds thinks the two of you are a paradox. She sees something no one else sees."

Will Graham: "What's that?"

Alana Bloom: "That neither of you is the killer she's writing about, but together, you might be."

Hannibal Lecter: "Freddie Lounds must consider you a bland interview subject if she's already resorted to fiction."

Alana Bloom: "She won't be fenced in by something as malleable as the truth. Freddie has no boundaries."

Will Graham: "A person with no boundaries is a psychopath. Or a journalist."

Alana Bloom: "Freddie isn't the only one without boundaries. Your relationship doesn't seem to know many. Patient and therapist. Friend and enemy."

Hannibal Lecter: "Crossing boundaries is different than violating them."

Alana Bloom: "Boundaries are always subject to negotiation. It's just hard to know where you are with each other."

Will Graham: "We know where we are with each other. Shouldn't that be enough?"

Alana can see that she is bumping into her own boundaries. Hannibal makes light of the exchange.

Hannibal Lecter: "Better the devil you know."

Hannibal Lecter smiles and takes a bite.

INT. FREDDIE LOUNDS'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

The room is dark, privacy blinds drawn against the sunlight. On a desk are reports and articles, pictures of Will Graham, Hannibal Lecter, Abigail Hobbs, Bedelia Du Maurier. The police file on Bedelia's attacker. Scribbled notes on a legal pad. Papers and charts are everywhere. She is an obsessive when on the hunt. In the shadows, Hannibal Lecter waits, unmoving, in his plastic suit.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY

Tires crunch to a halt. Freddie Lounds exits her car with a bag, Will's house in the background.

She stands on Will's veranda, peers through the door. Can see the dogs, but no Will Graham. She knocks again. She tries the door, pushes. It doesn't open. Freddie moves off the veranda, peers through windows. Looks under the house. An opportunity she may not get again. She sees the shed.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - SHED - DAY

Freddie Lounds now stands in front of the large doors. A hefty padlock is on the bolt. She pulls lock picks from her bag and deftly starts to work the lock. The lock turns.

INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - SHED - DAY

Light floods in as the doors open and Freddie Lounds steps in, silhouetted against the light behind. She moves into the shed. Old carpentry wood, a stack of firewood logs, boxes of ancient fishing tackle. Ancient machinery. And Randall Tier's mauling suit. It hangs like a skinned animal from a beam.

Freddie absently pulls out her camera and takes a few pictures. In the burst of light from her flash, she notices something. She studies the bones closer. The bear skull glowers at her, the claws hang on either side, bloody and stained. She glances around the room and continues taking pictures of every detail of the space.

She examines the lock on an industrial freezer and retrieves her lock pick kit.

The freezer door opens revealing Freddie looking inside. A dozen paper-wrapped fish fill the freezer. A horseshoe-shaped paper-wrapped fish catches Freddie's eye. Unlike the other fish, it's in a plastic bag. Freddie opens the bag and retrieves the horseshoe-wrapped fish, unwrapping it and revealing it is a human jaw.

The door opens behind her, flooding the room with light. Freddie startles, turning to see Will silhouetted behind her.

INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - SHED - DAY

Freddie stares at Will in horror as he calmly closes the door behind him, blocking her way out. Freddie goes for the revolver in her bag. Pulls it free, points.

Will Graham: "There really is a very good explanation for all of this."

Freddie Lounds: "I don't want to hear it."

Will takes a menacing step closer.

Will Graham: "You're not the least bit curious?"

Freddie Lounds: "Get away from the door."

Will Graham: "I can't let you go, Freddie. Not without hearing what I have to say. I know you're scared. Only have to be scared just a little bit longer. Give me the gun."

He takes a final step and Freddie fires. The bullet raises splinters off the wall, narrowly missing Will. Will charges, violently slamming into Freddie. Freddie keeps firing until Will wrenches the gun from her hand. She chops her foot hard down his instep and scrambles away. Will bolts after her, slamming into the wall as he slips on the cold floor.

Freddie is nearly to the door as Will grabs her by the back of the head, snatching a fistful of red hair. Freddie's hand comes from her bag with pepper spray. She blasts Will with it. Will lets go of her, hands to his eyes.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - SHED - DAY

Freddie Lounds comes bursting from the shed, running for her life toward her car, cell phone in one hand. She clicks her keys and the car opens. She dives inside.

Trying to control her panic, she clicks the doors locked. Her cell phone is to her ear as she starts the car. Her call gets connected.

Voice Mail (V.O.): "Jack Crawford."

A beep sounds.

Freddie Lounds: "Ja-AHHHHHH."

The side window bursts inward at Freddie, spraying broken glass and revealing Will swinging an iron bar. Freddie screams as she is yanked violently out of the car. The camera pans down from Freddie, as she's dragged screaming from the car, to the cell phone, call timer counting the seconds.

INT. BAU - JACK CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - DAY

Jack Crawford plays the recorded message for Alana Bloom, Hannibal Lecter, and Will Graham. They listen grimly to the sound of ragged breath, the car door, the smash and then the scream.

Jack Crawford: "Freddie Lounds left this message for me three hours ago. Her cell signal's dead now. Last call was traced to the nearest phone tower. In Wolf Trap, Virginia. We have her on security cameras at a gas station, filling her car. Six miles from your farm."

Will Graham: "Freddie was supposed to interview me. She never showed up."

Alana is looking at Will closely. Hannibal is watching Alana.

Jack Crawford: "Why are you granting interviews to Freddie Lounds?"

Will Graham: "I owed her one."

Hannibal Lecter: "Surely, Freddie Lounds has more enemies than Will."

Jack Crawford: "Not in Wolf Trap, Virginia."

Will Graham: "I live in the middle of nowhere, Jack. If someone wanted to take her, it'd be a good place to do it."

Alana looks at Will and Hannibal. She decides she has to speak.

Alana Bloom: "Freddie was investigating a story about Will and Hannibal committing murders together. There's no reason to believe her, but someone believed Freddie was a threat."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

A wax paper-wrapped package is placed on a worktop, unwrapped, revealing two beautiful loins of meat. Will Graham is organizing his groceries on the counter as Hannibal Lecter looks on. Onions, assorted bell peppers, garlic cloves, tomatoes, potatoes and ginger are ready for prep.

Will Graham: "I provide the ingredients, you tell me what we should do with them."

Hannibal Lecter: "What's the meat?"

Will Graham: "What do you think?"

Hannibal Lecter smiles at that. He cuts the string and unrolls the paper to reveal a loin of meat. Long and slim. He bends and smells it. Hannibal looks up at Will with a smile. Because he knows what this is. He looks proud.

Hannibal Lecter: "Red meat, but only just. Veal? Pork, perhaps?"

Will Graham: "She was a slim and delicate pig."

Hannibal Lecter: "I'll make you a pork lomo saltado. We'll make it together. You slice the ginger."

Hannibal hands Will a knife and nods to the chopping board. Will grabs the ginger root among the ingredients. Hannibal looks at Will closely now. Intent.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Will and Hannibal sit at the table, beautifully-presented plates before them. Hannibal smiles, watches Will as he raises a forkful of the meat and eats it. Hannibal is satisfied. He takes a mouthful himself and savors it. He knows the flavor. He looks at Will.

Hannibal Lecter: "The meat has an interesting flavor. It's bracing. Notes of citrus."

Will savors the flavors of the dish.

Will Graham: "My palate isn't as refined as yours."

Hannibal Lecter: "Apart from humane considerations, it's more flavorful for animals to be stress-free prior to slaughter. This animal tastes frightened."

Will Graham: "What does 'frightened' taste like?"

Hannibal Lecter: "It's acidic."

Will Graham: "The meat is bitter about being dead."

Hannibal is amused by that notion.

Hannibal Lecter: "This meat isn't pork."

Will Graham: "It's long pig."

Will takes a bite. Hannibal watches him intently, proud.

Will Graham: "You can't reduce me to a set of influences. I'm not the product of anything. I've given up good and evil for behaviorism."

Hannibal Lecter: "Then you can't say that I'm evil."

Will Graham: "You're destructive. Same thing."

Hannibal Lecter: "Evil's just destructive? Storms are evil, if it's that simple. And we have fire, and then there's hail. Underwriters lump it all under 'Acts of God.' Is this meal an act of God, Will?"

Hannibal Lecter takes a final bite.