EXT. FLORENCE - PREDAWN

A silhouetted Florence skyline as the sun threatens to rise. A cloud of blood blooms beneath the surface of the water.

EXT. FLORENTINE BRIDGE - DAWN

A silhouetted Hannibal Lecter limps home after his defeat at the hands of Jack Crawford. His face is bruised and bloody. He walks through a deserted Florence, his clothes torn and marked. He limps where Jack stuck the hook through his calf.

Water runs over his head and neck, forming rivulets down his back, over open wounds, which turn the tiny streams pink.

EXT. ARCHWAY - DAWN

Sunlight begins to burn at one end as a silhouetted Hannibal staggers into the cool shadows of the alley. The figure limps toward us, a series of afterimages lingering behind him as he moves closer.

His hair is wet, as water sluices down his face. Female hands wring a sponge and water pours over him.

INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - BATHROOM - DAY

Hannibal Lecter lies in the bathtub. Bedelia wrings a sponge and water pours down Hannibal's beaten, cut and bruised body.

The water that drips from the sponge is tainted with blood. It sweeps down Hannibal's arms and chest, across his burned palms. Sensual and soothing. Just out of focus, Bedelia is kneeling by the tub, tending him. Hannibal's calf is raised over the side of the bathtub. The sponge sweeps across the ugly wound in the flesh, ragged and raw. Blood drips into the bathwater.

A shining needle appears as Bedelia carefully and skillfully sutures the wound in Hannibal's calf. Hannibal watches her work, as close as lovers. And just as intimate. He watches her concentration, drinking her in. Bedelia finishes the last suture and looks at Hannibal, finally. She draws up the string and cuts it.

The power cord noose is cut. Pazzi's dead body is framed through the outstretched arms of those on the ground, reaching up to support the body as it is lowered. Dangling viscera is wrapped with netting, collecting Pazzi's innards and keeping them not far from his body.

EXT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - DAY

Pazzi's body is collected by Florence Polizia, to the resounding, medieval delight of the masses, as Jack Crawford grimly watches. He refuses to turn away, a penance of sorts.

"Jack."

Jack Crawford turns, scarcely daring to believe he heard right. Will Graham stands just beyond the police barriers. He is tired, showing the bruises of his fall from the train. Jack has to fight a sudden urge to run and hug Will, which surprises him. Huge relief. He smiles at Will and Will returns it. Both men are surprised how strongly they feel. And then guilt hits them both and they look to Pazzi. Jack nods to an Italian cop and motions Will under the barrier tape.

INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - ATROCIOUS TORTURE EXHIBIT - DAY

Jack Crawford and Will Graham move through the shattered interior of the Atrocious Torture Exhibit where Jack and Hannibal did battle.

Jack Crawford: "He's wounded and worried."

Will Graham: "Hannibal doesn't worry. Knowing he's in danger won't rattle him any more than killing does."

Jack Crawford examines the vintage woodcarving of Pazzi's ancestor hanging, disemboweled.

Jack Crawford: "If Rinaldo Pazzi decided to do his duty as an officer of the law, he could have detained Dr. Fell and determined very quickly that he was Hannibal Lecter. Would have taken thirty minutes to get a warrant."

Will Graham: "All those resources were denied to Pazzi. Once he decided to sell Hannibal, he became a bounty hunter."

Jack Crawford: "Outside the law and alone. Here we are: outside the law and alone."

Will Graham: "Again."

Jack Crawford: "We know how that usually turns out. Mason Verger is trying to capture Hannibal himself for purposes of personal revenge."

Will Graham: "Have you told la polizia they're looking for Hannibal Lecter?"

Jack Crawford: "They're motivated to find Dr. Fell inside the law. Knowing who he is... and what he's worth, will just coax them out of bounds."

Will Graham: "It would be a free-for-all."

Jack Crawford: "And Hannibal would slip away. Would you slip away with him?"

Will Graham: "Part of me will always want to."

Jack Crawford: "You have to cut that part out."

Will Graham looks around the displays of torture instruments.

Will Graham: "Of course you would find him here. Not because of the exhibit, but because of the crowd it attracts."

Jack Crawford watches Will as he moves behind a starvation cage, appearing as though he's trapped inside.

Will Graham: "You had him, Jack. He was beaten. Why didn't you kill him?"

Jack Crawford: "Maybe I need you to."

A pencil drags across paper, leaving graphite debris in its wake. A man's prominent shoulders have taken shape beneath the pencil's tip as it continues to move. Instead of completing the head on its shoulders, a stump is drawn.

"Beheaded for refusing to worship the Roman gods... the Christian martyr San Miniato picked up his severed head from the sand of the Roman amphitheater... and carried it beneath his arm to the mountainside across the river."

The drawing is revealed in its entirety. The Christian martyr carries his severed head under his arm as he lumbers down the Florentine street. The drawing bleeds color as it transforms into reality and the figure carrying its severed head fades.

EXT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - BALCONY - DAY

Hannibal Lecter, drawing on a pad with some discomfort considering his wounds, is gazing out over Florence and the modern street that he's been sketching. Bedelia approaches.

Hannibal Lecter: "His body passed along the ancient streets below us. I want to be able to draw these streets from memory. I want to be able to draw the Palazzo Vecchio and the Duomo."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You won't be coming back here for a very long time."

Hannibal Lecter: "Memories of Florence will be all I have. Florence is where I became a man. I see my end in my beginning."

She takes his pencil and pad, then turns to move inside. Hannibal follows.

INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Hannibal Lecter follows Bedelia inside.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "All of our endings can be found in our beginnings. History repeats itself and we can't escape it."

Hannibal Lecter notices a small suitcase. His coat is draped over it.

Hannibal Lecter: "You packed lightly."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I packed for you. This is where I leave you. Or more accurately, where you leave me."

Hannibal Lecter: "This isn't how I intended to say good-bye. I imagined it differently."

She stands confidently next to his packed suitcase.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I didn't."

Hannibal Lecter: "Didn't you?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I knew you were intending to eat me and I knew you had no intention of doing it hastily."

Hannibal Lecter: "Would be a shame not to savor you."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I haven't quite marinated long enough for your tastes. When they come for you..."

Hannibal Lecter: "And they will come..."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "What will you say of me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I will help you tell the version of events you want to be told. I will help you because you asked me to."

They exchange a smile, such strange bedfellows.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You may make a meal of me yet, Hannibal..."

Bedelia kisses Hannibal once on the lips. Both of them are happy to let it linger.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "...but not today."

A row of pig asses, their tails lined up as if in a Busby Berkeley freeze frame. A cleaver slams down, removing a pig tail. Then three more. A row of pig tails are chopped into one-inch sections. A cook's finger follows a line in a cookbook. A knot of ginger is peeled, cut and minced. Black vinegar pools and spreads across a shallow dish. The chopped pig tails are glazed, spiced and cooked.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Mason, in his wheelchair, is sitting like an eager schoolboy at the industrial-grade kitchen's center island, which has been laid out with fine linens, crystal, china and silver for just the single place setting. Next to him is a bronze bowl. Cordell unfurls a beautifully-fanned napkin and tucks it beneath Mason's chin. He then places a plate, with a beautifully-prepared dish of pig tails, before Mason.

Cordell: "Pig tails. Cut into sections to give the aesthetic of fingers cut at the joint."

Mason Verger: "Finger food."

Cordell: "Hands are how we touch the world. They're tactile. Sensual. Remove an arm and your patient will still feel phantom digits. Imagine what Dr. Lecter will feel watching you nibble on his fingers."

Mason almost gasps, impressed.

Mason Verger: "Poetry, Cordell. Poetry."

Cordell: "In a ginger-black vinegar sauce."

Mason takes a pig tail, chewing it and not really liking it.

Mason Verger: "Mmmm. It's mostly skin and bone."

Cordell: "The actual fingers will have more meat, and then there's the marrow."

Cordell produces another dish.

Cordell: "Here it is in a fermented bean sauce."

Mason takes the bean sauce pig tail and gives it a small chew.

Mason Verger: "I prefer the ginger."

Mason reaches for the gristle in his teeth.

Cordell: "No, no. Spit."

Mason does as instructed into the bronze bowl, and there is a small gong sound.

Cordell: "A Buddhist singing bowl. The gong represents the start of a new day."

Mason Verger: "Buddhists don't eat meat."

Cordell: "This isn't meat. This is man."

Mason Verger: "Papa always said meat is a people business. He was a pioneer in livestock production, I'm sure he's eaten someone. Yet I must admit a tremble at the notion myself."

Cordell: "I find there's something reassuring about you eating Dr. Lecter. It makes you the apex predator."

Mason Verger: "I like that. 'Apex predator.'"

Cordell: "We could Peking duck him. You have to torture a duck to prepare it. Pump its skin up with air, then glaze it with a hot honey and hang it by its neck until it dries."

Mason Verger: "Then roast until crispy."

Hannibal stares directly forward, a thin glaze coating his skin, which browns, roasts and crackles. He is revealed lying on his back, roasted whole and tastefully garnished to obscure parts that would offend.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (DREAM STATE)

The camera crawls over roasted Hannibal to find Mason Verger sitting at the head of the table.

Mason Verger: "Transubstantiation."

A muffled phone is buzzing.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MASON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mason Verger's eyes slowly open, still holding onto the dream. Without turning his head, Mason's hand walks on its fingers, like a crab, to push a telephone button, the speaker under his pillow, a microphone near the ruin of his face.

Mason Verger: "I'm here. Tell me."

"It's a bloody casino."

Mason Verger: "Tell me."

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MAIN ROOM - NIGHT

A huge plasma-screen TV shows a broadcast of an Italian news station. An attractive female anchor reports in Italian. In the burn-in box next to her head is eyewitness iPhone footage of the aftermath of Pazzi's death in Florence, the body dangling above the piazza. The view pulls back from the TV to reveal Mason, Cordell, Margot and Alana are all watching the screen. Alana Bloom mutes the television with a remote and she, Margot and Cordell all turn and look at an inscrutable Mason.

Cordell: "How do you feel?"

Mason Verger: "I feel like I just paid a lot of money for a dead dago."

Margot Verger: "The feces will fly about Pazzi."

Mason Verger: "Better to get it out that Pazzi was dirty. They'll take it better if he's dirty. Was he dirty?"

Margot Verger: "Except for this, I don't know."

Alana Bloom: "What if they trace Pazzi back to you?"

Mason Verger: "I can take care of that."

Alana Bloom: "You took care of Pazzi."

Mason Verger: "I have little interest in the expensive piece of meat twitching at the end of that electrical cord."

Alana Bloom: "Hannibal can disappear too well and you'll be left with nothing."

Margot Verger: "Better buy another cop."

Alana Bloom: "Better buy the whole department."

INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - BATHROOM - DAY

In a darkened conduit, screws squeak as a vent is removed. An arm reaches in, feeling around the immediate vicinity until finding a small leather bag, taped to the roof of the vent, and pulling it free. Bedelia removes the small leather bag from the vent.

INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY

The small leather bag is unrolled on a table, revealing an ampoule and a hypodermic needle. Bedelia, seated in front of it, wraps surgical tubing around her forearm, pulling it taught to create a bulging vein. With one end of the surgical tubing in her teeth, she picks up her needle and ampoule, but when she looks up, she starts. Chiyoh stands in the apartment, regarding Bedelia with curiosity, her rifle resting on her hip.

Without pulling the plunger to draw fluid from the ampoule, Bedelia carefully removes the needle and sets it down.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You must be looking for Hannibal Lecter. One of his patients?"

Chiyoh: "No, not a patient. Where is he?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Gone. Seeing how you let yourself in, I hope it's not too forward to ask, who the hell are you?"

Chiyoh: "Family."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Ah. You've come all the way from home."

Chiyoh: "Who are you?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I'm his psychiatrist."

Chiyoh glances at the ampoule and needle.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Medicinal purposes."

Chiyoh studies Bedelia, eyes narrowing.

Chiyoh: "You're like his bird. I'm his bird, too. He puts us in cages to see what we'll do."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Fly away or dash ourselves dead against the bars."

Chiyoh: "You haven't flown away."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You're flying right toward him. How does he inspire such devotion?"

Chiyoh: "You're his psychiatrist."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You could add to what I've learned in my experience with him, and from the mute postures of the dead. Were you there? Did you watch as the beast within him turned from the teat and entered the world?"

Chiyoh: "I met the beast and I saw him grow. Someone wants to kill him."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "More than one someone, I'd say. What do you want?"

Chiyoh: "I want to cage him."

That makes Bedelia smile.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I thought Will Graham was Hannibal's biggest mistake. But I have to wonder if it isn't you. Now, if you'll excuse me, it's time for me to take my medicine."

The needle draws fluid. It stabs into Bedelia's flesh. The plunger forces the fluid to rush like a river. Bedelia's pupil dilates wide. The walls around her vibrate ever so slightly to the rhythm of her breath and hum of her circulatory system. Throughout the vibration, only Bedelia's image is still and clear. All else writhes. Bedelia closes her eyes, trying to focus through the vivid distortions of reality. As she takes deep, controlled breaths, there is a knock at the door.

INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - FRONT DOOR - DAY

The door opens revealing Bedelia. She stares blankly, covering her dazed and slightly-unfocused eyes.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Yes?"

Jack Crawford and Will Graham stand outside the door. Their images are mostly still, only occasionally fluttering, but the walls vibrate around them. Will eyes Bedelia somewhat cynically.

Will Graham: "Mrs. Fell, I presume?"

INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Rows of ampoules line a table. The camera moves slowly along the tiny bottles through which we can see the distorted image of Jack and Will. Bedelia sits opposite Jack Crawford who pulls out one of the ampoules, studying it, while Will observes behind Jack.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "My husband's a doctor. He's treating my condition."

Jack Crawford: "What condition is that, Mrs. Fell?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I get confused."

Will Graham: "Please. You need to get over yourself, whatever self this is... Bedelia."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "My name is Lydia Fell."

In her view, Will's image flutters in fits and starts as the room around him continues to pulse and vibrate.

Will Graham: "You expect us to believe you somehow got lost in the hot darkness of Hannibal Lecter's mind? That Lydia Fell is some construct?"

Jack Crawford pulls out his cell phone and calls up an image he shows to Bedelia: a missing-person poster displaying her likeness. She stares through it.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Now I'm very confused."

Will Graham leans in close to Bedelia and, in a distorted reprise of her words to him in a past encounter, he mockingly whispers:

Will Graham: "I don't believe you."

Jack Crawford: "You're not confused, Bedelia."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "That's not my name."

Will Graham: "You know who you are and what you are doing, and you know exactly how you're going to wiggle out of it. What is this? Sedatives? Hypnotics? Ethanol? Scopolamine? Midazolam?"

Jack Crawford: "Same cocktail Dr. Lecter served Miriam Lass? You've been freebasing your alibi. I'm not even mad at you. In fact, I'd say I'm fairly impressed."

Will Graham: "Mostly because you're still alive. When this fog of yours clears, I'd love to hear how you managed that."

Bedelia maintains her front, but there is an almost-imperceptible glint in her eye. She turns to Jack.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You say my husband murdered a Chief Investigator of the Florentine Questura. Where are the polizia? Shouldn't they be questioning me?"

Jack Crawford: "They will."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "They sure are taking their time. What could possibly be the delay? I have an idea. Do you?"

Jack Crawford: "They're being bought. By whoever bought Rinaldo Pazzi."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Interest in my husband seems to be getting very competitive."

Jack becomes aware that Will is no longer in the room.

Jack Crawford: "Will?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I wonder who will find him first."

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MASON'S BEDROOM - DAY

In an underwater coral structure, a small dark hole is tucked near its belly. A great eel hides in the shadows. Margot emerges from the shadows into the vague, watery reflections coming off the aquarium in the floor.

Margot Verger: "I've made new friends in Italy. They're cleaning up and starting over. All you need to concern yourself with now is what'll happen when Dr. Lecter is in your hands."

Mason Verger: "You've worked so hard to give me what I want. It's only fair to talk about what Margot wants. Come sit on Santa's lap."

Margot Verger: "You know what I want."

Mason Verger takes a breath; a difficult subject for them both.

Mason Verger: "My biggest regret in life is taking away your ability to create it."

Margot Verger: "Adoption is a good thing to do."

Mason Verger: "No pedigree in buying a Chinese baby. They're cheaper than shoats. I wish I could give you a Verger baby, our own baby. Yours and mine. We could raise it together."

Margot Verger: "Last time you told me you wanted a baby, you removed my uterus."

Mason Verger: "In my defense, you weaponized your uterus. Shouldn't have been waving it around like a loaded pistol."

Margot Verger: "I brought it on myself."

Mason Verger: "You often do."

Margot Verger: "I've been disarmed. You disarmed me."

Mason Verger: "Shortsighted, I admit. But there's every possibility I'm still packing loads of viable sperm. Stumbled across any viable uteruses lately?"

Margot Verger: "Not that I'm aware of."

Mason Verger: "Why don't we find a surrogate?"

Margot Verger studies Mason, suspicious.

Margot Verger: "What are you up to, Mason?"

Mason Verger: "I want us to have a baby, Margot. I could be really good to a child. I could go to parenting classes. Let's find a way, Margot. Let's find a way to be a family again."

INT. UFFIZI GALLERY - DAY

Botticelli's Primavera, the blueprint for il Mostro's notorious crime scene twenty years ago. Hannibal Lecter is sitting on a bench before the painting, quietly sketching it. The garlanded nymph is being drawn to look exactly like Bedelia Du Maurier. The pale Zephyrus is being drawn to look exactly like Will Graham.

Will Graham approaches Hannibal over his shoulder; he's rapt in concentration. Will lays eyes on Hannibal for the first time since Hannibal gutted him. Both men are battered and bruised. He comes forward and lays a gentle hand on Hannibal's shoulder. Hannibal looks up at Will and smiles, pleased to see him. Will sits beside Hannibal on the bench in front of the glorious painting.

Will Graham: "Good to see you."

Hannibal Lecter: "If I saw you every day forever, Will, I would remember this time."

Will Graham: "Strange to see you in front of me. Been staring at afterimages of you in places you haven't been in years."

Hannibal Lecter: "'To market, to market, to buy a fat pig. Home again, home again, jiggity-jig.'"

Will Graham: "I looked up at the night sky there. Orion above the horizon and, near it, Jupiter. I wondered if you could see it, too. I wondered if our stars were the same."

Hannibal Lecter: "I believe some of our stars will always be the same. You entered the foyer of my mind and stumbled down the hall of my beginnings."

Will Graham: "I wanted to understand you before I laid eyes on you again. I needed it to be clear what I was seeing."

Hannibal Lecter: "Where does the difference between the past and the future come from?"

Will Graham: "Mine? Before you and after you. Yours? It's all starting to blur. Mischa. Abigail. Chiyoh."

Hannibal Lecter: "How is Chiyoh?"

Will Graham: "She pushed me off a train."

Hannibal Lecter: "Atta girl."

Will Graham studies Hannibal a moment.

Will Graham: "You and I have begun to blur."

Hannibal Lecter: "Isn't that how you found me?"

Will Graham: "Even as the possibility of free will dissipates, my experience of it remains the same. I continue to feel and act as though I have it."

Hannibal Lecter: "The worm that destroys you is the temptation to agree with your critics, to get their approval."

Will Graham: "Every crime of yours feels like one I am guilty of. Not just Abigail's murder, but every murder stretching backward and forward in time."

Hannibal Lecter: "Then what's left to do? Freeing yourself from me and me freeing myself from you, they're the same."

Will Graham: "We're conjoined. Curious if either of us can survive separation."

Hannibal Lecter: "Now's the hardest test: not letting rage and frustration, nor forgiveness, keep you from thinking. Shall we?"

Hannibal rises; Will follows suit.

Will Graham: "After you."

Hannibal leads Will out of the gallery. His Harpy knife inconspicuously slides into his palm. Will's own Harpy knife slides into his palm.

EXT. UFFIZI GALLERY - COURTYARD - DAY

Will Graham and Hannibal Lecter emerge from the museum, out into the bustling courtyard. From a nearby roof, a telescopic rifle sight finds Hannibal in its crosshairs.

EXT. UFFIZI GALLERY - ROOF - DAY

The rifle's silenced barrel resembles the entrance to a dark tunnel pregnant with danger. A gloved finger twitches on the trigger. It belongs to Chiyoh. Through the telescopic sight, she deliberately moves from Hannibal to Will. She pulls the trigger and fires, causing a flock of pigeons to burst into frightened flight.

EXT. UFFIZI GALLERY - COURTYARD - DAY

Will is hit in the shoulder. He is thrown off balance against Hannibal, who catches him, holding him up as if he is drunk or faint. Will's blade falls from his hand and Hannibal picks it up. Hannibal looks around quickly and then throws an arm around Will, dazed and bleeding, and quickly hustles him though the courtyard toward the riverfront.

EXT. UFFIZI GALLERY - ROOF - DAY

Chiyoh takes a moment to consider what she has done.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MARGOT'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

A woman's arm reaches into frame as if to caress something. The image twins and the original hand is caressing its twin's arm. Margot leans into frame as if for a kiss. Her image twins and it appears she is about to kiss herself. Her leg moves through frame and twins, then the twin legs scissor across each other. She kisses her twin tenderly, sensually. Her twin is Alana Bloom.

Margot and Alana, their nudity tastefully obscured, make love, their long hair splayed across the satin sheets as they kiss passionately. Pale light moves across their skin, catching the fine downy hairs along their backs. Their faces twin with each kiss in an erotic, pulsing rhythm, Alana becoming Margot becoming Alana becoming Margot. Their faces transported by ecstasy as they arch in climax.

From a high angle, their hair appears to be the sockets in a lovely skull, their limbs composing the rest of the image. The curvature of a thigh appearing to be the curvature of a cheekbone, their feet the grinning teeth of a broken smile.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MARGOT'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Margot and Alana are sitting on opposite sides of the unmade bed, their backs to one another, each getting dressed.

Alana Bloom: "Owing to eight months of relentless effort, access to confidential federal files, no international restrictions and large expenditures of money, Mason is ahead of the FBI in the pursuit of Hannibal Lecter."

Margot Verger: "Mason has no intention of sharing his lead with the FBI."

Alana Bloom: "I do. Once he has Hannibal."

Margot Verger considers that a moment.

Margot Verger: "There's something I need to get from Mason before he goes to prison. Any experience harvesting sperm?"

INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Inspector Benetti, late 30s, smooth and cold, is flanked by the imposing presence of two additional Florence cops. Jack and Bedelia sit as Inspector Benetti and the police stand over them. Several Italian police work in the background, taking fingerprints and blood samples from the bathroom where Bedelia treated Hannibal's wounds.

Inspector Benetti: "We cannot locate Dr. Fell. Close attention has been brought to bear on him. We have eyewitness accounts of a bloody figure, matching his description, running from the scene."

Jack Crawford: "Local radio reported Pazzi had committed hara-kiri with a knife."

Inspector Benetti: "Many are eager to believe Pazzi killed himself, binding his own hands in the manner of jail suicide."

Jack Crawford: "In addition to hanging himself."

Inspector Benetti: "We know it was murder. And perhaps most poetically, the Italian public have already decided il Mostro has killed Rinaldo Pazzi. A twenty-year-old debt finally paid."

Jack Crawford: "The Italian public is right."

Inspector Benetti: "Il Mostro died in prison. Commandator Pazzi had been assigned to investigate the disappearance of two men from the Palazzo Capponi."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Professor Sogliato. One of the missing men. My husband knew him. We've been to his home many times."

That last sentence is directed solely at Jack.

Inspector Benetti: "We believe your husband was responsible for the disappearances, and murdered Commendator Pazzi when he came to the same conclusion."

Bedelia reacts, allowing tears of confusion to flow. Jack continues to be impressed by her performance.

Jack Crawford: "If you haven't already, access the ViCAP database at Quantico; you will find Dr. Fell on the Most-Wanted page. He's flanked by a bomber and an arsonist, under the name Hannibal Lecter. The fingerprints you pull from the coils of Pazzi's noose will be his."

Inspector Benetti: "If you knew Dr. Fell to be Hannibal Lecter, why didn't you bring it to the attention of the Questura?"

Jack Crawford: "There's a price on his head. Pazzi knew. He tried to sell him. That kind of money, can't say I blame him. Can you?"

A tense moment as Benetti decides to ignore the challenge.

Inspector Benetti: "You've already been questioned regarding Rinaldo Pazzi's murder, Signor Crawford. Since you're not in Florence on official FBI business, that will be all."

Jack stands and, shortly thereafter, Bedelia stands and starts to follow him out.

Inspector Benetti: "Not you, Signora Fell. You stay right where you are."

Jack glances back at Bedelia who sits down again, surrounded by Florentine police. Jack leaves.

INT. SOGLIATO'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

A door opens into a room that slides in and out of focus. Blood runs down fingers and drops in thick spatters onto a polished floor. The point of view jerks forward, canted at an angle. This is Will Graham's view as Hannibal brings him into the room. Will's shirt beneath his coat is soaked with blood. It runs down his sleeve and drips from his fingers.

Hannibal Lecter maneuvers Will onto the couch, where Will lies back, dazed and dizzy from blood loss. From Will's hazy point of view, Hannibal moves away and comes back with water in a glass. He tenderly holds it to Will's lips. Will sips.

Hannibal Lecter: "The bullet is still inside you. This will hurt."

He pulls Will forward and strips Will's coat from his shoulders, exposing the bullet wound and also effectively trapping Will's arms. Will watches as Hannibal cuts his shirt away, revealing the ugly bullet wound, still oozing blood. Will endures the pain beneath Hannibal's touch. The intimacy is striking.

Hannibal Lecter: "Chiyoh's always been very protective of me. Did she kill her tenant or did you?"

Will Graham: "She did."

Hannibal Lecter: "Excellent."

Hannibal places Will's knife in his limp hand.

Hannibal Lecter: "You dropped your forgiveness, Will."

Will stares at the blade in the nerve-damaged hand of his trapped arm. They look at one another for a tense moment.

Hannibal Lecter: "You forgive how God forgives. Would you have done it quickly, or would you have stopped to gloat?"

Will Graham: "Does God gloat?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Often."

Will furtively glances down, and Hannibal pierces Will's bare arm with a sharp needle, giving him an injection. The effect is instantaneous: Will drops the blade neatly into Hannibal's waiting hand. Will's eyelids flutter; his circulatory system thrums as the drug courses through his veins. Hannibal looms in and out of focus, his voice slow and low.

Hannibal Lecter: "Give that a moment."

Getting up, Hannibal moves through an archway, into the kitchen, where he starts unpacking a grocery bag. From Will's drugged perspective, Hannibal flutters ominously.

Hannibal Lecter: "What you're experiencing is the first flush of fear."

As Hannibal approaches again, a shimmering giant looms overhead. He is now the Wendigo.

Hannibal Lecter: "Intense fear will come in waves. The body can't stand it for long."

Will's eyes slowly close.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Music plays softly in the background—Glenn Gould's Bach Goldberg Variations. A burner ignites in blue flame. Savory butter sizzles in a bronze saucepan. Fresh shallots are getting minced with a sharp knife, the warm glow of candlelight reflected in the silvery blade.

Will is seated eagerly at the beautifully-laid table, while Hannibal busies himself at a sideboard, sautéing the butter over a portable burner, and chopping the shallots. Both men look handsome in coats and ties, neither battered nor bruised. This is Will's drug-induced fantasy.

Will Graham: "I can almost taste the butter."

Hannibal Lecter: "Taste and smell are the oldest senses, and the closest to the center of the mind."

Will Graham: "Parts that precede pity and morality."

Hannibal Lecter: "They play in the dome of our skulls, like miracles illuminated on a church ceiling. The ceremonies and sights and exchanges of dinner can be far more engaging than theater."

Will looks apprehensive.

Will Graham: "What's for dinner?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Never ask. Spoils the surprise."

The scene darkens inward from the corners, like a closing lens.

INT. SOGLIATO'S APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (REALITY)

Will Graham's eyes open and he looks to where Hannibal can be seen, only feet away, yet it seems a great distance. His image ghosts in a conscious replaying of Hannibal in the teaser. Both men are battered and bruised. Will sits in front of Sogliato's fine white linen, china and silver, leaving ghostly images of his slow progress behind. Hannibal produces a fine syringe and injects Will's arm once more. Will swoons, and Hannibal uses a strap already fastened to the chair back to pinion Will to the chair.

The room swims and Hannibal's face morphs into Will's own face and then back again.

Hannibal Lecter: "I do not indulge much in regret, but I am sorry to be leaving Italy. There were things in the Palazzo Capponi I would have liked to read. I would have liked to play the clavier and perhaps compose. I might have cooked for the Widow Pazzi, when she overcame her grief. I would have liked to have shown you Florence, Will."

Hannibal raises a straw to Will's lips. Will sips.

Will Graham: "The soup isn't very good."

Hannibal Lecter: "It's a parsley-and-thyme infusion, and more for my sake than yours. Have another sip, let it circulate."

Will does so, pliable to Hannibal's wishes. He notes a third place setting at the other end of the table.

Will Graham: "Are we expecting company?"

INT. SOGLIATO'S APARTMENT BUILDING - LOBBY/ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Jack Crawford enters through the front door. Checking a directory displayed on the wall, he finds the name "SOGLIATO -- 7B." Then he gets into an elevator.

INT. SOGLIATO'S APARTMENT BUILDING - ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Jack Crawford presses the button marked "7." As the door begins to slide shut, a hand suddenly reaches in to stop it. Chiyoh steps into the elevator with her rifle case, standing right beside Jack, both of them looking straight ahead. The door closes again. Chiyoh reaches to press "7," realizing it's already pushed. She glances surreptitiously at Jack. The elevator lurches upward. Jack looks at her. Chiyoh looks at Jack, sees the gun under his coat.

INT. SOGLIATO'S APARTMENT BUILDING - HALLWAY/ELEVATOR - NIGHT

A cheerful ding heralds its arrival. The door opens. Jack holds it open for Chiyoh who reluctantly walks out. Jack watches her go. He allows the elevator door to close and follows Chiyoh. She moves down the hall and, as she approaches the stairway landing, she pauses. She glances back at Jack.

Chiyoh: "Wrong floor."

Chiyoh casually descends the stairs, aware that Jack is watching her suspiciously. He considers a moment, then continues down the hall. He approaches Sogliato's door. He touches the door, which swings open. He sneaks inside.

INT. SOGLIATO'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM/DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Jack Crawford enters, careful. He draws his gun. Hearing the soft music coming from the dining room, he heads through the archway. The sight of Will sitting at the table—drugged and bound, his head dropped—stops Jack cold. He creeps into the room, listening for any sound of Hannibal. All that can be heard is the sizzle of butter. Jack cautiously approaches Will, puts a hand on his shoulder. Will stirs, focusing on Jack, blinks, then:

Will Graham: "He's under the table, Jack."

An arm juts out from under the table, a blade flashes. Jack's Achilles heel is slashed. He drops hard.

INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Bedelia Du Maurier sits primly upright. Inspector Benetti has pulled a chair close to her and sits uncomfortably close. His clasped hands are near her knees. He's holding several documents.

Inspector Benetti: "Your husband left you behind."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "There was no reason for me to run. I've done nothing wrong."

Inspector Benetti: "I hold in my hands the photographs taken for Dr. Fell's state work permit, attached with the negatives to his permesso di soggiorno. I also have his French work papers."

Bedelia glances at the French papers featuring the original Dr. Fell.

Inspector Benetti: "Looks different with a beard, no?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "That's not my husband."

Inspector Benetti: "This is Roman Fell. And this is Lydia Fell."

He shows Bedelia a copy of the original Mrs. Fell's passport.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I am Lydia Fell."

Inspector Benetti: "Did you murder her with your husband? Or did you just watch?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I am Lydia Fell."

Inspector Benetti: "I don't care who you are. I don't care if you're in your right mind or your wrong mind. Understand? Those things are inconsequential."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I understand, in this moment, you are not working for the Questura."

Inspector Benetti: "That's a good thing to understand."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I don't want to be seen as uncooperative."

Inspector Benetti: "How you are seen is entirely up to you. Rescued by the brave Questura... or apprehended."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "I've never considered myself in need of rescuing until now."

Inspector Benetti: "Is your husband still in the city?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "My husband was hoping to meet a friend before he left Florence."

Inspector Benetti: "Where?"

Bedelia Du Maurier: "The nature of their meeting requires privacy. They'll be somewhere no one's supposed to be."

INT. SOGLIATO'S APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

The music is still playing softly as Jack comes round to find himself seated way down at the opposite end of the table from Will. Not far from Jack, Hannibal is busy at his burners, scraping minced caper berries into the sizzling pan. Jack makes to move and his face falls in frustration and then sudden fear as he realizes he cannot move.

Hannibal Lecter: "I've taken the liberty of giving you something to help you relax. Won't be able to do much more than chew, but that's all you'll need to do. I didn't have an opportunity to ask you during our last encounter, but did you enjoy the exhibition? A different kind of evil minds museum."

Jack Crawford: "Not so different."

Hannibal smiles and pours Will a glass of wine. Will raises it and sips. Jack stares, the incongruity of this beyond belief.

Hannibal Lecter: "The promoters are failed taxidermists who formerly got along by eating offal from the trophies they mounted. Things that bring people together."

From Will's drugged view, colors and sounds kaleidoscope and his own pulse sounds loud in his ears.

Jack Crawford: "...the three of us."

Hannibal Lecter: "You were to be the guest of honor."

Hannibal pours himself a glass of wine now and takes a leisurely sip.

Will Graham: "But the menu was all wrong."

Hannibal Lecter: "Yes, it was."

Putting down his wine, he picks up a diabolical-looking electric bone saw.

Hannibal Lecter: "Jack was the first to suggest getting inside your head."

Hannibal looks down at Will. Then, fondly, and with real regret:

Hannibal Lecter: "Now we both have the opportunity to chew quite literally what we've only chewed figuratively."

With the flick of a switch, Hannibal revs up the bone saw. Wielding it, Hannibal approaches Will, the elegant music playing in ironic counterpoint. Will's drugged POV makes this hellish, the blade spinning in slow-motion.

Jack Crawford: "Hannibal..."

Hannibal brings the screaming bone saw, with its madly-spinning, serrated blade, toward Will's head. The unmistakable, sickeningly high-pitched sound of metal slicing into flesh and bone is heard. Blood begins to trickle down between Will's eyes.

In Will's surreal point of view, Jack's screaming face emerges with no sound. Blood floats upward in bubbles suspended over the table and, in them, he sees reflections—Jack, Hannibal, himself and the Wendigo. The room is reflected fisheye-style in his huge pupils as Hannibal leans over him. The room seems to spin faster and faster round him, as if the whine is of the room spinning, not the blade. His eyes finally close.

Cumulus clouds are high overhead, scudding peacefully across a clear blue sky.

The calm surface of a placid lake ripples in a gentle breeze.

Towering trees race past, enveloping us in leafy canopies as we seemingly venture deep into dark, primal woods.

INT. MEAT TRUCK - DAY

Red raw meat. Twin rows of gutted pig carcasses hang in plastic wrapping from a rail in the roof of the darkened space. The tick and hum of refrigeration can be heard in the metal box. A sudden clang as the door is opened and a gust of frosted air is expelled into the dark space beyond, unclear behind the beams of a powerful light. A whirring noise can be heard.

Will Graham's face is in repose. The view pulls away from him, corkscrewing to reveal that Will is actually hanging upside down like the carcasses, Hannibal alongside him, similarly trussed. The whirring continues and the carcasses swing sideways as a silhouetted shape moves through them to reveal Mason Verger in his electric wheelchair, looking at them both with great satisfaction. Cordell is behind him, a beatific smile on his face.

Mason Verger: "Gentlemen, welcome to Muskrat Farm."