Five pairs of shoes move along the floor at pace, followed by a pair of expensive Italian loafers under shiny suit trousers.

INT. SOGLIATO'S APARTMENT BUILDING - LOBBY - NIGHT

Five Italian cops and a well-dressed Inspector Benetti stop outside the elevator door. Benetti nods two of the cops up the stairs, and they move off. The cops draw guns and head up the staircase. The elevator pings and the door opens.

INT. SOGLIATO'S APARTMENT BUILDING - HALLWAY - NIGHT

The two cops from the stairs wait as Inspector Benetti and his other men exit the elevator. Benetti listens at the door, then nods.

The cops kick in the door and rush into the room. Inspector Benetti remains for a moment, his heartbeat thudding in his ears. He takes a breath and follows.

INT. SOGLIATO'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Out of focus figures move in front of Will Graham. Will's face is a mask of blood dripping from the wound Hannibal Lecter began cutting. His eyes are unfocused.

Through a blood-tinted lens, the Wendigo looms over the dining table, Jack Crawford opposite Will, appearing as though Francis Bacon has painted him. Blurs of Italian police officers drift through the frame.

Jack Crawford watches as Hannibal Lecter slowly drops to his knees, lacing his hands behind his head. The five cops cover the room, two of them with guns on Hannibal Lecter. They are experienced and professional, staying well out of his range.

Jack Crawford: "Sono un ufficiale del FBI. Ascoltami. Mi chiamo Jack Crawford..."

Inspector Benetti steps in behind them and takes in the scene, noting Will Graham's drugged and injured state.

Jack Crawford: "Commendator Benetti. Don't imagine you're here to make an arrest."

Inspector Benetti: "You imagine correctly."

Inspector Benetti nods, and the cop behind Hannibal Lecter strikes him across the back of the head. Hannibal Lecter drops to the ground. Two of the cops efficiently hog-tie him with plastic zip ties.

Inspector Benetti: "Take Lecter and this one. He'll pay us double for both. There's no price on your head, Signor Crawford."

A cop approaches Will Graham and pulls a black bag over his head. The same is done to Hannibal Lecter.

Jack Crawford: "Hannibal Lecter, il Mostro di Firenze, narrowly escapes the Questura. That how the story goes?"

Inspector Benetti: "Missed him by that much. The good Dottor Lecter is once more in the wind. But he left one last victim."

Inspector Benetti nods and three cops take Will Graham and Hannibal Lecter out, heads bagged, hands tied behind their backs. He looks at the remaining two, including the lead cop.

Inspector Benetti: "Open him the way Lecter opened the other one. Open him all the way. Arrivederci."

Inspector Benetti exits behind Hannibal Lecter and Will Graham.

Jack Crawford: "Arrivederci."

The two remaining cops move toward Jack Crawford. The lead cop picks up the bone saw. It whines in his hand. The other cop holds Jack Crawford's head. Through the window, a glint of light makes Jack Crawford squint.

A crack, and a hole appears in the window. The cop holding Jack Crawford takes a bullet in the head and drops. Two more cracks, and the lead cop takes one in the shoulder. As it spins him, another one hits his head.

The bone saw drops, whining and vibrating onto the table, now right in front of Jack Crawford. He sits with two dead cops on the floor, their blood splashed on his face. His eyes are on the bone saw, buzzing ever closer to the table's edge and his lap. Through a starred bullet hole in the window is Chiyoh.

EXT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT

Chiyoh stands with her foot on the ledge, bracing her elbow to steady her aim. Her eye is huge in the end of the scope. She lowers the rifle and walks away.

INT. SOGLIATO'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Chiyoh enters the apartment. Jack Crawford is head bowed. The floor creaks and he glances up over his brow.

Jack Crawford: "Wrong floor."

Chiyoh switches off the bone saw.

Jack Crawford: "Would you come over here and pull this needle out of my arm?"

Chiyoh: "Where did they take them?"

Jack Crawford: "Did you do this?"

Chiyoh: "Of course."

Jack Crawford: "Appreciate it. May I ask why?"

Chiyoh: "Why wouldn't I? I ought to. I should. Therefore, I must. You're sitting at Hannibal's table. You know him. You know Will."

Jack Crawford: "I know them. They are identically different, Hannibal and Will."

Chiyoh: "Where did they take them?"

Jack Crawford studies her a moment.

Jack Crawford: "They are most likely taking them to the U.S. To Maryland. I can even give you an address... once you pull this needle out of my arm."

He indicates where the drugs are still flowing into his body. Chiyoh does not move.

Chiyoh: "Once I pull this needle out of your arm... then what?"

Jack Crawford: "My 'then what' consists of getting out of Florence alive now that I'm supposed to be dead. That leaves me in no position to stop whatever it is you're intending to start."

Chiyoh holds Jack Crawford's gaze and then pulls out his IV.

Chiyoh: "Where?"

Jack Crawford: "Muskrat Farm. The Verger estate near the Susquehanna River in northern Maryland."

Chiyoh stoops and frisks the dead Italian police officer on the ground until she finds his gun. She places it on the table in front of Jack Crawford and exits.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MARGOT'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

Alana Bloom and Margot Verger are entwined in bed, the corona of hair around each of their heads forming the empty sockets of a skull, the shapes of their naked bodies under sheets providing the cheek and jawline. They sleep soundly, curled against each other. The hum of Margot Verger's cell phone rattles on the nightstand. Finally, Margot Verger opens her eyes and stirs, grabbing the phone.

Margot Verger: "Pronto."

Margot Verger sits up.

Margot Verger: "Dimmi tutto."

Alana Bloom stares at the ceiling, listening. From her pillow, looking up, Alana Bloom can see Hannibal Lecter's face on the swarming darkness above her.

Later, Alana Bloom stares out the window at the coming morning, deep in thought. Margot Verger approaches, pulling on a beautiful silk robe.

Alana Bloom: "Mason has what he wants. I think it's time you get what you want."

Margot Verger: "He has Hannibal. He has Will, too."

Alana Bloom goes still, inscrutable, blinks, refocuses.

Alana Bloom: "Your brother is a sadist. He'll torture them and take the time to enjoy it. That gives us time."

EXT. MUSKRAT FARM - ROAD - DUSK

An aerial shot of the witchy beauty of Muskrat Farm, nestled amid miles of woodland. A convoy of three SUVs surrounding a refrigerated meat truck rips down the road.

EXT. MUSKRAT FARM - PIG BARN - DUSK

Mason Verger and Cordell stand next to two bodyguards outside the open doors of the pig barn. Mason Verger takes a breath, enjoying the crisp morning air.

Mason Verger: "There's a hush over Muskrat Farm, Cordell, like the quiet of the old Sabbath. Smells like salvation."

In the distance, the silence brims with a new sound, the sound of the approaching convoy.

INT. MEAT TRUCK - DAY

Twin rows of gutted pig carcasses hang in plastic wrapping from a rail in the roof of the darkened space. The tick and hum of refrigeration can be heard in the metal box. A sudden clang as the door is opened and a gust of frosted air is expelled. A whirring noise can be heard.

Will Graham's face is in repose. He is hanging upside down like the carcasses, Hannibal Lecter alongside him, similarly trussed. The whirring continues and the carcasses swing sideways as a silhouetted shape moves through them to reveal Mason Verger in his electric wheelchair, looking at them both with great satisfaction. Cordell stands behind him with a beatific smile.

Mason Verger: "Gentlemen, welcome to Muskrat Farm."

Hannibal Lecter: "Your people might have assassinated me in Florence, Mason."

Mason Verger: "Where's the fun in that?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I see the first coarse bristles of revenge have brushed the ruin of your cheek and begun to excite you."

Mason Verger: "I'm very excited."

Mason Verger produces a knife in his good hand.

Mason Verger: "I still carry my father's knife. Ever ready to slip into a pig's back to check the depth of fat."

Mason Verger slides close to Hannibal Lecter and presses the blade against the flesh of his lower back. Hannibal Lecter does not flinch. Mason Verger puts his thumb against the blade and slides it into Hannibal Lecter. A thin trickle of blood is released. Hannibal Lecter shows no sign. Disappointed, Mason Verger slides the blade further.

Mason Verger: "A little on the lean side. Let's fatten you up, shall we?"

INT. MUSKRAT FARM - PIG BARN - DAY

The meat truck has been backed through the doors into the narrow end of a funnel made by two angled rows of steel pigpens. Pigs snort nervously in the pens, clanging the bars. Mason Verger, in his wheelchair, and Cordell watch as Inspector Benetti leads bodyguards bringing Hannibal Lecter and Will Graham from the truck, bound securely to a pair of handcarts. Will Graham's head is cleaned up and bandaged, but he is still groggy and in pain.

Mason Verger: "It is more trouble physically to move a semi-wild pig against its will than to kidnap a man."

Cordell: "Pigs are harder to get hold of, and big ones are stronger than a man."

As Hannibal Lecter and Will Graham are wheeled past, Mason Verger speaks up for their benefit and his amusement.

Mason Verger: "There are the tusks to consider, if you want to maintain the integrity of your abdomen. Something worth maintaining, Mr. Graham? Tusked beasts instinctively disembowel."

Will Graham's and Hannibal Lecter's handcarts are shackled to the walls. Mason Verger wheels closer to Hannibal Lecter, cocking his head up.

Mason Verger: "At swine fairs, I've seen exotic pigs from all over the world. For my new purpose, you are the best of all that I've seen. We will have some good, funny times, Dr. Lecter."

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MASON'S BEDROOM - DAY

A ripple of water moves underneath a surface where an eerie blue-green light plays on the ceiling. Within it, a long black shadow moves in endless Möbius patterns. It is Mason Verger's eel, moving restlessly in its tank.

Mason Verger: "Sad news about Jack Crawford."

Mason Verger sits in his wheelchair, facing Alana Bloom.

Mason Verger: "Appears Hannibal Lecter killed him in Florence. I hope there is some satisfaction being the final victim of the Chesapeake Ripper. There will certainly be some notoriety."

As Alana Bloom reels from the news, Margot Verger enters behind her.

Margot Verger: "The feces is flying again in Florence. Jack Crawford is alive."

Mason Verger: "That's disappointing."

Margot Verger: "He saw the snatch."

Mason Verger: "Were there any other witnesses?"

Margot Verger: "Just him."

Mason Verger: "I trust you haven't betrayed doctor-patient confidentiality."

Alana Bloom: "Your trust hasn't been misplaced."

Margot Verger glances at Alana Bloom, then back to Mason Verger.

Margot Verger: "The FBI is going to catch the first squeal on the kidnapping."

Mason Verger: "The moment Jack Crawford set foot in Italy, I registered complaints with the local authorities, the sheriff and the U.S. Attorney's office that he had been harassing me, calling late at night with incoherent threats."

Alana Bloom: "Of course he can't prove he didn't."

Mason Verger: "And it muddies the water."

Margot Verger: "Now you can head off a warrant in this county and in this state."

Mason Verger: "I invited the sheriff up here to tour the property. He completed his cursory search and was well away before the meat truck arrived. There will be no warrant and no warrant forthcoming."

Alana Bloom: "I appreciate wanting to kill Hannibal Lecter. I am not without benefit from that."

Mason Verger: "Can't make good on his promise to murder you if he's dead."

Alana Bloom: "But he's not dead. Play with your food, Mason, and you'll give it the opportunity to bite back."

Mason Verger: "Oh, I'm not playing, Dr. Bloom."

Alana Bloom: "Hannibal is. He's always playing."

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Hands fasten cuff buttons on a shirt. The shirt is buttoned up the front of a torso. It is Will Graham's neck as his shirt is closed. A tie is wrapped around the collar, revealing the now-shrunken neck belongs to Mason Verger. Three neckties are knotted and pulled into position. Three sets of shined shoes are slipped onto three different pairs of feet, the laces tightly tied.

Hannibal Lecter is wheeled up to the table and his upright dolly automatically folds into a seated wheelchair at one end of the table. He is resplendent in suit and tie, looking very much his old self, sitting secured in his seat with one arm free, opposite Mason Verger at the other end.

Mason Verger: "I snatched Will Graham right out of your mouth. You must be famished."

Cordell places a beautiful tray of oysters on the table. Hannibal Lecter glances at the mollusks before looking back up at Mason Verger.

Hannibal Lecter: "There is an inescapable parallel between you and Jezebel, Mason. Keen Bible student that you are, you'll recall dogs ate Jezebel's face, along with the rest of her."

Hannibal Lecter slides an oyster into his mouth with his free hand.

Mason Verger: "If Jezebel was right with the Risen Jesus, if she praised His name, the Riz would have provided her a new face. As He has provided mine."

Will Graham is sitting between Mason Verger and Hannibal Lecter, with a bright new head bandage. Mason Verger glances at him.

Mason Verger: "The transplant surgery is extremely skillful, which is why Cordell here will be performing the face-off."

Cordell: "Hello."

Mason Verger: "You boys remind me of that German cannibal who advertised for a friend, then ate the friend's penis with him before he died. Tragedy being, the penis was overcooked. Go to all that trouble to eat a friend, and you overcook his penis. They ate it anyway. They had to, they committed. But they didn't enjoy it. I'm committed to enjoying every bite of you."

Will Graham looks to Mason Verger.

Will Graham: "You're gonna eat him with my face?"

Mason Verger: "Yes. I got a taste for it after the two of you had me eat my nose."

Hannibal Lecter: "You must be terribly proud that you could bring this off, Mason."

Mason Verger: "An accomplishment comparable to the discovery of radium. I imagine you, the product of all my searching and expenditure, glowing in the dark like the vial in Madame Curie's laboratory. I imagine after eating you, my belly will glow like a lightbulb."

Hannibal Lecter: "It's dangerous to get exactly what you want, Mason. What will you do after you've eaten me?"

Will Graham: "You could wreck some foster homes and torment some children..."

Mason Verger: "Drink martinis made with tears."

Hannibal Lecter: "But where, Mason, would the hard-core fun come from?"

Mason Verger: "Foolish to dilute this ecstatic time with fears about the future. Cordell, Mr. Graham is looking very dry. A little moisturizer, please."

Mason Verger taps his own cheek, indicating where to apply the moisturizer on Will Graham, as he resumes the conversation.

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm curious, what will be the first cuts of me you'll serve?"

Cordell: "The first course, of course, will be your hands and feet. Sizzling on a Promethean barbecue. The coal is white and very hard, makes a clear ringing sound when struck."

Hannibal Lecter: "You've thought of everything."

Mason Verger: "After that, we'll have a pajama party, you and I. You can wear shorties by then. Cordell's going to keep you alive for a long time."

As Cordell leans in to apply Will Graham's moisturizer, Will Graham's head jerks up, fast, and he locks his teeth into Cordell's cheek. Cordell growls, pushing a bloody-mawed Will Graham off of him. Will Graham spits a ragged piece of skin onto Mason Verger's empty plate, where it leaves a red smear and lies like an insult. Cordell clutches a bloody cheek. Hannibal Lecter holds Will Graham's gaze, amused.

Mason Verger: "No pajama party for you, Mr. Graham. We'll be feeding you to the pigs as soon as Cordell removes your face. In a much more civilized fashion than you just tried to remove his."

INT. MUSKRAT FARM - PIG BARN - NIGHT

A needle punctures flesh, disappearing beneath it, dragging a long strand of thread from its tail. The image is a reflection in a magnifying mirror. The needle emerges, crossing over an open wound, then disappearing again, drawing two pieces of flesh together, as if restoring a bite-shaped puzzle piece. Cordell is carefully stitching the bite Will Graham took out of his cheek back where it belongs. He ties off the thread and clips the ends, content with his work.

The Verger family logo, made of iron, is a branding iron. The crest heats on a bed of coal until it glows red-hot. The red-hot Verger family crest is pressed against flesh. Smoke rises from the iron, around a shoulder, revealing it is Hannibal Lecter being branded. He doesn't make a sound; instead, he takes in the smell of cooking flesh.

Hannibal Lecter is caged in a pigpen, among other pigpens housing various pigs. Cordell, his face dressed with gauze, cools the iron by placing it in a bucket of water.

Cordell: "Mason would've preferred to brand your face. He fought bravely and with his own funds against the Humane Slaughter Act, and managed to keep face-branding legal."

Hannibal Lecter: "It's very important to Mason that I have the pig's experience."

Cordell: "The Vergers sponsor a number of breeding and genetic research programs. Pigs have human-sized organs. Mason has done beautiful things with these creatures. Very special. Truly visionary."

Hannibal Lecter: "He has a wealth of information and resources in his faceless skull."

Cordell: "The longer you're respectful, the longer you'll keep your tongue."

Hannibal Lecter: "And when I do lose my tongue?"

Cordell: "I'll boil it and slice it very thin, marinate it in olive oil, garlic, parsley and vinegar."

Hannibal Lecter: "Simple, clean and delicious."

Cordell: "Have they told you the drill? The drill is, in a few hours, I'll come down here and remove all you've got below the elbows and knees. I'll keep you going with IVs and tourniquets until the very last. Some things are best saved for last. Once you're dead, I'll prepare your loins and ribs, aged."

Hannibal Lecter: "Meats are aged not only for tenderness, but mainly for flavor."

Cordell: "And flavors change."

Hannibal Lecter: "Subtle, but dramatic."

Cordell: "Every day I will feed Mason some new part of you. And don't you worry, Dr. Lecter, you will always be cooked to perfection."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will you feed Mason my eyes? Eating eyes is commonly considered taboo, as the eyes represent faces and through faces we empathize."

Cordell: "Mason wants to watch the pigs eat your face. Like the dogs ate his. He'll want you to watch, too."

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MASON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Margot Verger is helping Mason Verger out of bed, where he's been changed into medical pajamas, and into his wheelchair.

Mason Verger: "When I impulsively lash out, on the whole, I don't lash out randomly. I throw a very specific sort of fit."

Margot Verger: "You're nothing if not specific."

Mason Verger stares at the eel swimming in the floor below his twisted feet, propped in the stirrups of his wheelchair.

Mason Verger: "I think I might feed the eel some delicacy from Lecter; his genitals, perhaps. Then when I watch it circling in a figure eight, I'll know the infinity sign it makes stands for 'Lecter dead forever.' How long have you and Dr. Bloom been an item?"

The question gives Margot Verger pause, but she doesn't want to betray any vulnerability to her brother.

Margot Verger: "Not long."

Mason Verger: "Longer than that, Cordell says. Does Dr. Bloom want children? I'm sure you've checked under the hood by now. How's the uterus? Intact? Are the hips childbearing? Roomy?"

Margot Verger: "Land the plane, Mason."

Margot Verger stops helping and Mason Verger just lies there, helpless.

Mason Verger: "You have a big surprise coming to you, Margot. Do you like spoilers? I just love 'em. They don't spoil a thing for me. Would it spoil anything for you if I told you I already found us a surrogate? Not for my sperm, but for your eggs."

Margot Verger: "I don't have any. You took them."

Mason Verger: "I most certainly did, but I didn't humpty-dumpty them. I just went and found them a new basket."

Margot Verger stares, afraid to believe him, wanting to believe him.

Mason Verger: "I told you I wanted to give you a Verger baby, our own baby. Yours and mine. But mostly yours."

Margot Verger's voice goes cold, not to give her brother any leverage.

Margot Verger: "Where's the surrogate, Mason?"

Mason Verger: "She's resting at the moment."

Margot Verger: "She's here?"

Mason Verger: "She's on the farm."

Margot Verger: "I want to see her."

Mason Verger: "First you need to prepare yourself... psychologically. This is going to be a very emotional experience for you. I have to think about the appropriate timing."

Margot Verger: "Don't think too long, smiley."

Mason Verger: "That's the spirit, Margot. Your maternal instinct is revving up."

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Will Graham sits alone at the table, blood still smeared across his lips and chin. A moment, then Alana Bloom enters. Will Graham glances up and reacts, not expecting her. His initial fear for her safety melts into something more like suspicion.

Will Graham: "What are you doing here?"

Alana Bloom: "I'm Mason Verger's psychiatrist."

A small scoff from Will Graham, nothing but breath.

Will Graham: "That part of his therapy or yours?"

Alana Bloom: "I think we're all working through some issues. I'm putting an emphasis on self-preservation. Jack's alive."

Will Graham: "Good for Jack. You helped Mason Verger find us."

Alana Bloom: "I helped Mason find Hannibal. We followed Bâtard-Montrachet when we should have just followed you."

Will Graham: "Almost as ugly as what Mason wants to do to us is the fact that he can do it with the tacit agreement of people sworn to uphold the law."

Alana Bloom: "It's the way of the world."

Will Graham: "I never knew the world to be that way within the reach of your arm."

Alana Bloom: "I was trying to get to Hannibal before you. I knew you couldn't stop yourself. So I had to try."

Will Graham: "By facilitating torture and death."

Alana Bloom: "I can abide the thought of Hannibal tortured, not necessarily to death. I'd say he has it coming, wouldn't you? Or maybe you wouldn't. By the time the FBI gets a warrant, you and any evidence of what happened would be burnt or roiling in the bowels of Mason's pigs."

Will Graham: "Or Mason himself. What did you think would happen?"

Alana Bloom: "I thought Jack Crawford and the FBI would come to the rescue. But the finer details of what I thought would happen have evolved."

Will Graham: "Then you have to evolve, Alana. You have to spill blood. By your own hand or someone else's."

Cordell enters, approaching Will Graham in his wheelchair.

Cordell: "We're ready for you, Mr. Graham. Please keep your teeth to yourself."

Alana Bloom watches Cordell wheel Will Graham away.

INT. MUSKRAT FARM - PIG BARN - NIGHT

Moving past one pig in a cage after another, the camera finds Hannibal Lecter bound in his own pigpen, the brand burn raw and livid on his back, his arms and legs bound in the cage. He glances over his shoulder at an Italian cop near the door, a tranquilizer gun on the table beside him. Margot Verger enters.

Margot Verger: "Buonasera, signor."

Italian Cop: "Buonasera, Signorina Verger."

Margot Verger takes a breath and approaches Hannibal Lecter in his pen.

Hannibal Lecter: "Thank you for coming, Margot. Hasn't been that long since I treated you. Have you started taking the chocolate, as Mason likes to say, after you fought him for so long?"

Margot Verger: "Are we in therapy now?"

Hannibal Lecter: "You tell me."

Margot Verger: "Mason promised to give something back to me. Something he stole. There was a surrogate all along. It's a Verger baby. My baby."

Hannibal Lecter: "You think Mason will just give you what he promised?"

Margot Verger: "It's here. On the farm."

Hannibal Lecter: "I can imagine lots of ways to be a Verger baby that are unpleasant. I'm sure your brother can, too."

Margot Verger's eyes brim with tears as her face goes still. She knows Hannibal Lecter is telling the truth.

Hannibal Lecter: "Listen to me, Margot. Mason will deny you. He will always deny you. You know you'll have to kill him."

Margot Verger: "Are you saying you'd do it for me? I could never trust you."

Hannibal Lecter: "No, of course not. But you could trust me never to deny that I did it. It would actually be more therapeutic for you to kill him yourself, Margot. You'll remember I recommended that in session."

Margot Verger: "Wait until I can get away with it, you said."

Hannibal Lecter: "What difference would one more murder charge make to me? I'm the only other suspect you've got. You can do it when it suits you, and I'll write a letter gloating about how I enjoyed killing him myself."

As Margot Verger considers his offer, Alana Bloom enters the barn and approaches the Italian cop sitting by the door. She carries a smart handbag and smiles.

Alana Bloom: "Buonasera."

He stands to greet her. She places her handbag on the table and, in one movement, picks up the tranquilizer gun and shoots the Italian cop in the throat. He drops. Margot Verger stares, dumbstruck.

Hannibal Lecter: "He has a pocketknife."

Alana Bloom retrieves the pocketknife from the unconscious Italian cop and crosses to Hannibal Lecter in his pigpen.

Margot Verger: "Are you out of your mind?"

Alana Bloom: "Yes. I thought I could save Will from you, but right now, you're the only one who can save him. Promise me you'll save him. Please."

Hannibal Lecter: "I promise, Alana. And I always keep my promises. Just cut the ropes on one arm, give me the knife and leave. I can do the rest."

Alana Bloom gets uncomfortably close to Hannibal Lecter, their faces very close to each other. Alana Bloom puts the blade on the rope.

Alana Bloom: "Are you going to kill Mason?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Margot is. Snatch some of my hair, back from the hairline, if you don't mind; get some skin. Put it in Mason's hand after he's dead."

They are close enough to kiss. Alana Bloom looks into his eyes.

Alana Bloom: "Could I have ever understood you?"

Hannibal Lecter: "No."

Her hand slides into his hair and then pulls his head viciously to one side. Hair tears from Hannibal Lecter's scalp. In the same moment, Alana Bloom slashes the knife at the cable ties used to bind him. Hannibal Lecter rises out of the pigpen, the Kraken awoken.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Opera music plays. A slow-motion spray of blood traces back to its source: a bodyguard falling backward, his throat cut. A blood-flecked blade is wielded by Hannibal Lecter, who is already moving on to the second of three bodyguards he has ambushed. He wears the clothes of the man Alana Bloom shot with the tranquilizer gun.

The second bodyguard is drawing a handgun from beneath his jacket, but he realizes he is too slow. Hannibal Lecter smashes a claw hammer in his other hand into the second bodyguard's chest. He coughs blood. The gun falls from his hand as Hannibal Lecter slams him against the wall and then ducks to the ground as the third bodyguard fires, bullets stitching holes in the wall.

Hannibal Lecter pulls his hammer from the second bodyguard with a sucking squelch. He rolls under the line of fire and slams the third bodyguard through the foot with the hammer. The third bodyguard screams and tries to bring his gun to bear on Hannibal Lecter, now right below him, but Hannibal Lecter holds his wrist. A moment, and then Hannibal Lecter rips a knife across the third bodyguard's abdomen. The third bodyguard sways before Hannibal Lecter, dead but not knowing it yet, as Hannibal Lecter stands up.

Doors slam and two more bodyguards come charging into the corridor, guns drawn. Lightning fast, Hannibal Lecter hurls the bloody hammer. It spins in the air, blood trailing from it, and strikes one of the new arrivals, spinning him to one side. Hannibal Lecter then spins the third bodyguard and drives toward them. Bullets drive into the third bodyguard, Hannibal Lecter hidden behind him. The third bodyguard rag-dolls in Hannibal Lecter’s arms as the bullets explode into his torso.

Hannibal Lecter meets the fourth bodyguard in the center of the corridor and slams the third bodyguard’s face right into his. The fourth bodyguard flies backward, nose spraying blood, and tangles with the fifth bodyguard. The knife in Hannibal Lecter’s hand flashes amid the fourth and fifth bodyguards. Blood splashes the walls.

Two more bodyguards, six and seven, enter the corridor and pause, guns in their hands. They see the bloodbath that is the corridor, six bloodied bodies splashed up and down the walls. Gun smoke hangs in the air. Blood drips down the walls. Six and seven breathe deep, tense, guns at the ready. They move forward, stepping through the bodies. Nothing moves except for the blood sliding down the walls. Six and seven move away, toward the end of the corridor. And then a bloodied figure rises from the floor behind them, as Hannibal Lecter wipes the frame.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - OPERATING ROOM - NIGHT

Sudden stillness and silence. Will Graham is strapped to a gurney under the bright light of an OR, his head in a surgical vice holding him absolutely still. A shadow falls across his face as Cordell leans over him.

Cordell: "Good news and bad news. The good news is, until recently, a full face transplant was almost unthinkable."

Cordell fusses around Will Graham, checking his monitors. Whatever else, he's a perfectionist at this.

Cordell: "But medical science is a fast-moving train. First, I'll lift your pretty mush right off, and then I'll expose the blood vessels and major connections of Mason's face, then lay yours straight on top."

The full horror of that lands on Will Graham.

Cordell: "You really are done, you know. That's the bad news."

Cordell moves away. Will Graham's eyes move to a gleaming tray of surgical instruments: sharp blades and tools. He struggles to move his limbs. Nothing doing. The first panic appears in his eyes.

EXT. MUSKRAT FARM - NIGHT

An open doorway is filled with darkness. A blood-splattered Hannibal Lecter looms from within to fill it. Before him are the open fields and woodland of Muskrat Farm. A huge moon hangs above and a myriad of stars. Freedom. He could run and no one would catch him, leave Will Graham and be free. The thought crosses his mind. He takes a deep breath of night air. And then he turns back into the house, and the shadows within envelop him once more.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - OPERATING ROOM - NIGHT

Will Graham turns his head slowly sideways as Mason Verger is pushed in beside him on a gurney by Cordell.

Mason Verger: "Cordell told me, if I waited long enough, he could grow me a new face from my own cells, but I was adamant it was your face I wanted. I was looking at your face while you were watching me cut mine off. I thought, 'That's a nice face.'"

Cordell: "You're going under now, Mr. Verger, and when you wake up, your face will be bound and uncomfortable."

Cordell adjusts Mason Verger's dosage and he begins to drift off.

Mason Verger: "Have you accepted Jesus, Mr. Graham? Do you have faith? I do. I'm free. Hallelujah..."

And he's out. A needle enters Will Graham's flesh. Cordell adjusts the IV bottle it's connected to.

Cordell: "This will immobilize your body, but you'll feel everything. I'm going to cut off your face without anesthesia, Mr. Graham."

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - BABY SUITE - NIGHT

Doors slam open. Alana Bloom and Margot Verger move into a tiled room with a lot of high-tech medical equipment. They both stop dead and stare. In the center of the room is a large table. On top, lying on its side, is a large, unconscious female pig with IV lines and drips filtering into it. Medical monitors bleep quietly. The pig's belly is swollen by a pregnancy.

Alana Bloom and Margot Verger move around this bizarre sight. As they do, a monitor mounted on the wall comes into vision, showing an ultrasound image in grays and blacks. It shows a human fetus, almost full term, legs tucked up. Alana Bloom and Margot Verger stare, stunned.

Margot Verger: "Is he alive?"

Alana Bloom reacts first, moves to check the monitors. Her face falls.

Alana Bloom: "There's no fetal heartbeat."

As this lands on Margot Verger...

Margot Verger: "Take it out... take it out."

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - OPERATING ROOM - NIGHT

Mason Verger, face mask off to reveal his hideous, mutilated visage, lies back, eyes closed, awaiting his new face. Cordell is hunched over Will Graham. Will Graham is fully conscious as Cordell leans over him and finishes drawing a black line in marker around the line of Will Graham's face and jaw. He leans into Will Graham with a scalpel.

Cordell: "You'll be sure to let me know if this hurts, won't you?"

He starts to cut around the marker line. Blood slides from the pencil-thin incision. Will Graham feels everything, his teeth clenched against the pain he knows is coming.

The opera music from the earlier fight plays over close-up macro shots: a scalpel slides through skin; a delicate thin flow of blood; hands in surgical gloves gently lever skin away from facial bones, revealing teeth and jaw beneath. A face coming away from its moorings. It is two interconnected operations: a face being removed and a face being sewn onto someone else. And now a third procedure is added to the mix, this one rough and violent in comparison: a big incision of a caesarian section across a pig's hairy belly. A layer of bloody skin is laid down over Mason Verger's raw, waiting face, smearing blood where it touches. Hands delve deep into the pig's belly, surgical gloves slick with blood. A suture needle gleams as it moves under bright lights, stitching the new face to Mason Verger. Beyond, the bloody red mess of the donor's face is out of focus.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - BABY SUITE - NIGHT

An out-of-focus shape slowly comes into focus, revealing a baby. Margot Verger's desperate face forces herself to look at Alana Bloom holding her dead child.

Margot Verger: "I want to hold him."

She slowly takes the bundle Alana Bloom holds out to her. Out of the music and into real time, Alana Bloom wraps her arms around Margot Verger as she sobs. The enormity of her grief slams into her. She squeezes her eyes shut, holding her child tight.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MASON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mason Verger's closed eyes suddenly open. His face is mostly covered by his familiar face mask; what can be seen is red and postoperative. He is propped up in his wheelchair, the eel moving its ceaseless patterns in the floor.

Mason Verger: "Cordell?"

His voice is croaking, a whisper. Then louder.

Mason Verger: "Cordell? Cordell?!"

His senses are going off, pain hitting him, fear and dread. Something is not right. His hand pumps at an alarm button on the arm of his wheelchair. His good hand crab-walks up his chest and pulls the neck piece away. He grabs a mirror and holds it up. He sees that he now is Cordell, kind of. Cordell's face has been removed and placed over his own. As Mason Verger stares at himself in horror, Cordell's face slides off his own, leaving smears of blood before it lands on his lap.

Mason Verger: "Cordell!"

Mason Verger's good hand fumbles with a drawer knob, pulling it open, revealing a Walther PPK. He turns his wheelchair and rounds the bed toward the door, stopping short at the aquarium when he sees Alana Bloom enter.

Alana Bloom: "Hi, Mason."

Mason Verger: "What the hell's happening out there? Where's Cordell?"

Alana Bloom: "Cordell's dead. They're all dead out there. Hannibal got away."

Margot Verger emerges from the shadows behind Mason Verger.

Mason Verger: "Get on the horn to Washington and get four of those bastards with guns up here. Send the helicopter."

Margot Verger: "I found your surrogate, Mason."

Mason Verger: "Your surrogate, Margot. Told you I would give you a Verger baby."

Margot Verger: "I'm taking what you promised me. I got everything I need from you now."

Mason Verger: "You can't kill me, Margot. You'll lose everything. 'In the absence of an heir, the sole beneficiary is the Southern Baptist Church.'"

Margot Verger: "But we are going to have an heir, Mason. A Verger baby. Our baby. Yours and mine, but mainly yours."

Alana Bloom: "Do you know what happens if we stimulate your prostate gland with a cattle prod? Hannibal does. He helped us milk you."

Mason Verger: "You're dead, Dr. Bloom."

Alana Bloom: "Oh, Mason. We all are. Didn't you know? But these aren't."

She holds up a vial of a pearly, cloudy fluid. Mason Verger produces his pistol. Margot Verger sees it and moves first, crashing into Mason Verger as he fires. The aquarium's glass top shatters. Margot Verger's momentum carries the wheelchair onto its side and she and Mason Verger fall into the aquarium.

Under the water, Margot Verger and Mason Verger fight. His good arm pins her under the water, his body a dead weight against her. Their silent screams are visible. Alana Bloom joins Margot Verger, wrestling Mason Verger. The two human faces plunge down into the water, Mason Verger's face sending blood out like a mist. Alana Bloom rushes to help Margot Verger, grabbing at Mason Verger.

Margot Verger comes out of the water with a great gasp. She holds Alana Bloom's gaze and they bear down with relentless force. Mason Verger's hands claw at their hair. The two women hold him down. Cordell's transplanted face undulates in the water, blood flowing from beneath it. The eel agitates within its lair. Alana Bloom's eyes lock with Margot Verger's.

The eel comes up and bites at the bloody wounds holding Cordell's face to Mason Verger's. Mason Verger screams and swallows water as the eel tears at Cordell's face. As it comes free, the eel thrusts itself beyond, into Mason Verger's open mouth, seeking softer meat.

Cordell's bitten and torn face, backlit, slowly sinks to the bottom of the tank. Alana Bloom, still holding Mason Verger's good hand, reaches into a pocket and pulls out the hank of Hannibal Lecter's hair, pressing it into Mason Verger's palm.

EXT. MUSKRAT FARM - FOREST'S EDGE - NIGHT

A view of green grass in the dark. The moon and stars are above the field. Hannibal Lecter is carrying a bloody and barely-conscious Will Graham over his shoulder as he walks toward the forest's edge. Out of the shadows behind Hannibal Lecter, two Verger bodyguards appear. Moving swiftly upon him, they raise their rifles to fire.

Pfft! Pfft! Both of their heads fly backward as a red mist explodes from them and they crumple to the ground. Chiyoh is in the bough of a large tree, looking down the sights of her hunting rifle. Hannibal Lecter is now fixed firmly in her sights.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DUSK

A snowy vista. Chiyoh stands on the porch alone, her rifle resting in the crook of her arm. After a contemplative moment, Hannibal Lecter emerges through the front door.

Hannibal Lecter: "Will you go home? Can you go home?"

Chiyoh: "No more than you can."

Hannibal Lecter: "We all form frameworks from our early experiences through which later perceptions are understood."

Chiyoh: "Perceptions are understood when you look harder. I've looked into you. I thought you should be caged."

Hannibal Lecter: "Would you watch over me?"

Chiyoh: "I will watch over you. Not in a cage. Some beasts shouldn't be caged."

Hannibal Lecter: "Your obsessive and successful hunt, whose plight was it driven by? Mine? Will Graham's? Yours?"

Chiyoh: "Mischa's. Did you eat her?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Yes, but I did not kill her."

Chiyoh breathes a sigh of relief.

Hannibal Lecter: "One quality in a person doesn't rule out any other quality. They can exist side by side, good and terrible. Socrates said it better."

Chiyoh: "I see the best of you and the worst with steady hands and a slow heart."

Hannibal Lecter: "The most stable elements, Chiyoh, appear in the middle of the periodic table, roughly between iron and silver. Between iron and silver. I think that is appropriate for you."

Chiyoh studies Hannibal Lecter, not taking her guard down.

INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DUSK

Will Graham sits up in bed. His head is stitched with neat, expert black sutures following his jawline. He glances at the chair near his bed, a writing pad on the seat. It's filled with symbols and signs of astro- and particle physics. Hannibal Lecter enters and Will Graham hands him his writing pad.

Hannibal Lecter: "Do we talk about teacups and time and the rules of disorder?"

Will Graham: "The teacup is broken. It'll never gather itself back together again."

Hannibal Lecter: "Not even in your mind? Your memory palace is building. It's full of new things. It shares some rooms with my own. I've discovered you there. Victorious."

Will Graham: "When it comes to you and me, there can be no decisive victory."

Hannibal Lecter: "We are a zero-sum game?"

Will Graham takes that in, considering his home and the strangeness of Hannibal Lecter standing in it now.

Will Graham: "I miss my dogs. I'm not going to miss you. I'm not going to find you. I'm not going to look for you. I don't want to know where you are or what you do. I don't want to think about you anymore."

The cold, even flatness of Will Graham's words strikes Hannibal Lecter.

Hannibal Lecter: "You delight in wickedness and then berate yourself for the delight."

Will Graham: "You delight. I tolerate."

A sting of rejection.

Hannibal Lecter: "Tolerance is a fig leaf to hide your ravenous self from the world."

Will Graham: "I don't have your appetite. Good-bye, Hannibal."

Hannibal Lecter stands there a moment, rejected. Will Graham sighs and averts his eyes. Hannibal Lecter finally goes, leaving Will Graham alone.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - NIGHT

FBI vehicles drive at speed toward the house and agents jump out. They move toward the house, guns out and ready. The front door opens and Will Graham emerges. Jack Crawford steps out of the lead vehicle, on crutches.

Will Graham: "He's gone, Jack."

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm here."

Hannibal Lecter steps out of the trees, arms outstretched, almost welcoming. Agents move in, yelling commands. He kneels as the FBI agents surround him. Chiyoh watches through her rifle scope from the distant tree line, her sights on Hannibal Lecter.

Jack Crawford moves to Hannibal Lecter. Will Graham stays on the porch, watching.

Hannibal Lecter: "You finally caught the Chesapeake Ripper, Jack."

Jack Crawford: "Didn't catch you, you surrendered."

Hannibal Lecter: "I want you to know exactly where I am. And where you can find me."

He gives a sly glance toward Will Graham watching from the porch.

Hannibal Lecter is now in his cell. It is a semicircular cage within a canopy of nylon mesh stretching outside the bars. This cell stands alone in a large space, the walls rising up high to a glass ceiling. Gantries hold armed guards. Light shines down. Hannibal Lecter's every move and action will be observed. He is under a microscope. He is looking at Alana Bloom and Dr. Frederick Chilton, who regard him from outside the cage.