EXT. VIRGINIA BARN - NIGHT

A wash of red and blue light plays over tire prints in snow. A pair of heavy boots crosses them, obliterating the prints. The scene is nascent, filled with work lights and flashing neons. The breath of COPS and FBI AGENTS frosts the cold air. An ambulance is exiting, driving toward the viewer, its revolving lights filling the frame.

Jack Crawford stands alone, haunted, watching the ambulance drive away.

INT. BAU - EXAMINATION ROOM - NIGHT

Miriam Lass stands on a white sheet, wearing a paper gown. She is stoic as technicians move around her, combing and tweezing for evidence—fibers, hairs, saliva. Scissors snip a hair sample. Miriam stares forward, opening her mouth as a swab is taken.

Over this, a phone recording plays.

Miriam Lass: "Jack, Jack... Jack, it's Miriam. I don't know where I am. I can't see anything... I was so wrong..."

INT. BAU - JACK CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Jack Crawford sits in darkness, listening to the old recorded message.

Miriam Lass: "...I was so wrong. Please, Jack. I don't want to die like this..."

He replays the recording.

Miriam Lass: "Jack, it's Miriam..."

INT. BAU - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - NIGHT

Miriam is still being processed. Dirt is scraped from beneath the nails of her right hand. Her blood slowly fills a test tube. Each piece of evidence is put into bags, onto slides, and labeled.

Miriam Lass: "...I was so wrong..."

INT. FBI - MIRIAM LASS'S DORM - BATHROOM - NIGHT

Miriam's one-armed silhouette is ghost-like against the opaque shower curtain. She stands under the jet, washing away the dirt and grime of her captivity.

Miriam Lass: "...I don't want to die like this..."

INT. FBI - MIRIAM LASS'S DORM - NIGHT

Abrupt silence. Miriam sits, staring into the middle distance. We hear the slow thud of her heartbeat, the ambient hum of her circulatory system. Her left arm rests on her knee, revealing the round, smooth oddness of the stump. Tears slowly bud and build on her eyelashes. Barely audible chamber music grows until it becomes piercing.

Abrupt silence again.

Miriam Lass: "Thank you."

Jack Crawford is with her. There is belief and gratitude in her eyes. Her voice is raspy and low.

Miriam Lass: "I knew you'd never stop looking..."

Guilt washes over Jack Crawford; he knows different.

Miriam Lass: "Can I see him?"

Jack Crawford: "Who?"

Miriam Lass: "The Ripper."

Jack Crawford: "We haven't caught the Ripper."

Her stomach plunges—helpless, frustrated, scared.

Miriam Lass: "He's still—?"

Jack Crawford: "We need your help, Miriam. You know who he is."

Miriam Lass: "I don't. Know who he is."

Jack Crawford: "You found him."

Miriam Lass: "I don't remember finding him. He got inside my head."

Jack Crawford: "Do you remember being taken?"

Miriam Lass: "I remember a dream about drowning. Then being awake. And not awake. Being myself, and not myself. I remember I could smell salt air. We were by the sea. For weeks. Months. Longer. Days and evenings blurred, I'd wake up to the smell of fresh flowers and the sting of a needle. I wasn't afraid. Fear and pain were so far away, on the horizon, but not close. Never close."

Jack Crawford: "I was reckless with your life."

Miriam Lass: "I was reckless with my life."

Jack Crawford: "I saw what I needed in you and I used you. I let you break the rules on my behalf while I hid behind deniability."

Miriam Lass: "Please, Agent Crawford. Don't apologize to me for my mistakes. He treated me very well until the end. Until he put me in the ground. Even when he took my arm. He told me what he was going to do. I went to sleep. I woke up, it was gone. Said he was giving it to you."

Jack Crawford: "Did he tell you why?"

Miriam Lass: "He said he wanted to give you hope."

Jack Crawford: "Can you identify him?"

Miriam Lass: "I could hear his voice. I couldn't see his face. All I could see..."

A distorted man is silhouetted by a hypnotic, strobing light. A single bright object in his hand catches the light in twinkling pulses.

Miriam Lass: "...was light."

Jack Crawford: "Why didn't he kill you, Miriam? Why were you spared?"

Miriam Lass: "I wasn't spared. He was just saving me for last."

INT. BAU - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Alana Bloom is with Hannibal Lecter in the small room with the two-way mirror.

Alana Bloom: "They found a witness. A survivor. The only victim of the Chesapeake Ripper who lived to tell."

Hannibal Lecter: "Is this witness watching me now?"

Alana Bloom: "Yes."

Hannibal Lecter: "It seems I am the usual suspect."

Alana Bloom: "I keep having angry, imaginary conversations with Jack Crawford about that. I wish I could tell you why this is happening."

Hannibal Lecter looks to the glass.

Hannibal Lecter: "I don't think even Jack can tell me why. His witness must not be able to identify the Ripper by sight."

Hannibal Lecter stands and approaches the glass.

Hannibal Lecter: "Jack wants them to hear my voice. Otherwise, I'd be in here alone. Still, I appreciate your company."

On the other side of the glass, Jack Crawford and Miriam Lass watch them.

Alana Bloom: "There's new evidence in Will's case. Evidence he didn't commit the crimes he was accused of. Will's innocent, Hannibal."

Hannibal Lecter: "He's not innocent of trying to kill me. And he's not innocent of what is happening here."

Alana Bloom: "He thinks you're the Ripper."

Hannibal Lecter: "He's no longer alone in that."

As Hannibal Lecter approaches the glass, Miriam's heart thuds in her chest. Her circulatory system rises, and the distant, haunting chamber music grows in volume. From her perspective, Hannibal gets closer, tense. Her breath held. He now stands square to the glass directly in front of her, looking at her intently, as if they could touch.

The image shifts to a distorted man silhouetted by a hypnotic, strobing light.

Jack Crawford watches Miriam closely. She slowly drags her eyes from Hannibal Lecter and looks at Jack, shaking her head.

Miriam Lass: "It's not him."

Jack Crawford: "Are you sure?"

Miriam Lass: "Yes. He's not the Ripper."

Jack Crawford stares at Hannibal Lecter through the glass. Hannibal looks back as if he can actually see him.

INT. BSHCI - STAIRWELL - DAY

Dr. Frederick Chilton limps down a staircase. As he approaches a gate, he raps his silver-handled cane on the bars, and the gate buzzes and swings open.

INT. BSHCI - CELL BLOCK/WILL GRAHAM'S CELL - DAY

Dr. Frederick Chilton limps toward Will Graham's cell. As he approaches, Will is standing in the middle of his cage, no longer in a prison jumpsuit but in civilian clothes.

Will Graham: "This is very sudden."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "The federal prosecutor has dropped all charges. Since you weren't convicted of killing anyone, the basis for your sentencing to this institution is null and void. The Chesapeake Ripper has set you free."

Will Graham: "You're my psychiatrist, you could have kept me here if you wanted."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I'd love nothing more than to see you trade places with Dr. Lecter."

Will Graham: "Now that's a prize patient."

Dr. Frederick Chilton waves his cane at the CCTV camera. A moment later, Will Graham's cell door opens. Will steps out.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "You may have been exonerated, but Hannibal Lecter has yet to be incriminated. Which means, there's a cannibal on the loose. I have no intention of ending up on his menu."

Will Graham: "Then confess, Frederick. Might be the only thing saves your life."

They start down the hall.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Confess to what?"

Will Graham: "Confess to bonding with Hannibal Lecter over your mutual practice of unorthodox therapies. Dr. Lecter with me. You with Abel Gideon."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Abel Gideon has been playing his own game. Was wheeled out of that hospital by the Chesapeake Ripper. Curious what bargain they struck."

Will Graham: "There's no bargaining with smoke. Gideon's dead. You're next."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Unless I unburden myself?"

Will Graham: "Confession's good for the soul. Shine a light on your relationship with Hannibal Lecter. He works in the shadows. Deny them to him. Tell Jack Crawford everything."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "So if Hannibal kills me, he'll look more suspicious? Or are you simply suggesting I kill my career before Hannibal can kill me?"

Will Graham: "I'm suggesting you convince Jack Crawford however you can. Like your life depends on it."

The gate buzzes open. As Will steps through, Chilton asks:

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Why didn't Hannibal just kill you?"

Will Graham: "Because he wants to be my friend."

INT. BSHCI - THERAPY HALL - DAY

Will Graham comes through the doors under the guards' pulpit and into the main hall. Sunlight shines through the windows, creating shafts of light and shadow. Will walks toward freedom, pausing to look at the brutal therapy cages where he spent so much time. Walking down the hall, through the pools of light, he realizes Jack Crawford is waiting for him, standing near the base of the stairs. Will stops short.

Jack Crawford: "You need a ride?"

Will Graham: "I was going to call a cab."

Jack Crawford: "We found Miriam Lass. Alive."

Will Graham: "You catch the Ripper?"

Jack Crawford shakes his head "no."

Will Graham: "How is she? Miriam."

Jack Crawford: "Traumatized."

Will Graham: "Don't beat yourself up too badly."

Jack Crawford: "You beat yourself up about Beverly?"

Will's hesitation is a yes, but he deflects.

Will Graham: "Beverly's dead. Miriam's still alive. Trauma victims recover, Jack. Disaster has a way of putting life in perspective."

Jack Crawford: "Miriam thanked me. When we found her. For not giving up on her. I did give up on her. I gave up on you, too. I thought she was dead and I thought you were crazy. I stopped trying to find both of you."

Will Graham: "You didn't have to find me, Jack. You just had to listen to me."

Jack Crawford: "I put Miriam in a room with Hannibal Lecter. She stated definitively that he is not the Chesapeake Ripper."

Will Graham: "Was that definitive enough for you?"

Jack Crawford: "No. It wasn't."

Will considers that.

Will Graham: "Where did you find Miriam, Jack?"

EXT. VIRGINIA BARN - DAY

The crime scene is in full swing. Jack Crawford's sedan pulls into the center of it. Jack and Will Graham exit the car, Will holding a thick evidence file. Jack nods at a couple of FBI agents guarding the entrance, who stop and stare at Will's arrival. Jack leads Will toward the open barn doors.

Jack Crawford: "Property was foreclosed years ago. Appears as though the Ripper's been using it about as long."

Will regards the dark, ominous building and then follows him inside.

INT. VIRGINIA BARN - DAY

Will Graham walks through the large barn doors, taking in the scene. Rows of potted trees, wrapped in gauze with weeping branches that cascade to the floor, stand under grow lights mounted to the rafters. Jack walks down a set of stairs into a cistern room, indicating for Will to follow.

Jack Crawford: "Will."

INT. VIRGINIA BARN - CISTERN ROOM - DAY

The basement is lit by work lights, creating eerie shadows across a large, coffin-sized freezer. A rack of large glass slides, like the ones that encased Beverly Katz, lines a wall near the buzz saw that sliced her into vertical slabs. For a brief moment, Will sees Beverly's reflection in a pane of glass. He averts his eyes toward a kill room.

Linoleum is rolled out on the wooden floor to give a cleanable surface. Centered on it is an autopsy table, its stainless steel picking up highlights. A drain runs around the sides, a pipe running into a vat beneath. A roll of knives and surgical instruments lies upon it. Will eyes several heavy glass jars filled with blood resting on another table.

Jack Crawford: "It's Beverly Katz's blood. He drained her before he froze her. Before he cut into her."

Bunches of dying flowers, vines, and branches are coiled in a withering mass on the autopsy table. Will looks at the file as Jack walks him toward a pair of raised cistern openings.

Jack Crawford: "The Chesapeake Ripper's most-recent victim drowned in this cistern. The water in his lungs led us here."

Jack looks into one of the two cisterns, black water halfway up its walls. Above each cistern, a block and tackle hangs from a hook in the ceiling. Jack moves to the dry cistern.

Jack Crawford: "We found Miriam down there. She believes the Ripper brought her here to kill her. He was saving her to be his last victim. He knows we're close to catching him."

Will Graham: "He's been caught before. Catch a fish once and it gets away, it's a lot harder to catch a second time."

Jack watches Will as he surveys the room. Will takes a breath, exhales, then closes his eyes.

A pendulum swings in the darkness of Will Graham’s mind, keeping rhythm with his heartbeat. FWUM. FWUM.

The pendulum is now outside his head. It swings behind Will, and Jack Crawford recedes into the shadows. FWUM. The pendulum swings on the other side of the room, disappearing evidence markers and work lights. FWUM. The dying flowers, vines, and branches on the table rejuvenate and bloom anew, restored to a fresh state of life. The crime scene has now been decriminalized in Will's head.

Will opens his eyes to darkness. As light begins to illuminate the space, it's revealed he is in Hannibal Lecter's office. The Tree Man stands in full bloom in front of him, rooted to the floor. The Tree Man's branches grow, reaching out and stretching to the ceiling. Will takes it all in.

Will Graham: "I sewed the seeds and watched them grow. I cultivated a long chain of events leading to this. This, all of this, has been my design."

A dramatic theater curtain closes on the proscenium arch of Hannibal's office. Will is now back in the barn's cistern room. He glances down at the cistern. Miriam Lass is at the bottom, looking up at him.

Will Graham: "It's theater."

Will unceremoniously closes the cistern lid. Jack Crawford is standing behind him.

Jack Crawford: "Every time the Chesapeake Ripper kills, it's theater."

Will Graham: "The Chesapeake Ripper didn't bring Miriam here to kill her. He brought her here for you to find."

Jack Crawford: "The Ripper isn't self-destructive. He doesn't want to get caught."

Will Graham: "He wants you to catch someone. Like he wanted you to catch me. Somewhere, in all this evidence, you'll find something that will lead you away from Hannibal Lecter."

Jack Crawford: "Miriam Lass already has."

Will Graham: "Two years is a long time to have Hannibal in your head. You can't trust her, Jack. You can't trust any of this to be what it seems."

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY

The house sits nestled amidst bare trees and snow. Silence. Will walks up to the porch, enjoying the crunch of fresh snow underfoot. The door opens, revealing Alana Bloom inside. She barely has time to greet Will before the dogs squeeze past her.

Will rushes to meet them as they bound up to him, and he is engulfed in their unbridled joy. He drops to his knees in the snow as he pets them. Alana cannot help a smile.

Alana Bloom: "Welcome home."

Will Graham: "Thank you. Thank you for taking care of them. They seem happy."

Alana Bloom: "Happy to see you."

Will is momentarily overwhelmed with the dogs swarming around him, each wanting to greet and lick. He notices a new dog.

Will Graham: "Who's this?"

Alana Bloom: "Applesauce. She's mine. She likes applesauce. I rescued her."

Alana attaches a lead to Applesauce's collar.

Will Graham: "Picking up some of my bad habits?"

Alana Bloom: "Picking up your good habits. You challenged my whole framework of assumptions about the way you are. The way I think you are."

Will Graham: "The way you think I am isn't always a reliable guide to who I am."

Alana Bloom: "I was wrong about you."

Will Graham: "Because you didn't believe me? Or in me? Because you let me question my own sanity, my sense of reality?"

Alana Bloom: "Because you tried to kill Hannibal."

Will Graham: "You think I tried to kill Hannibal. Just like I think Hannibal killed Beverly Katz. And so many others."

Alana Bloom: "You're wrong about him."

Will Graham: "You're wrong about him, Alana. You see the best in him. I don't. I'm not being pessimistic. I'm just a realist depressed by the truth."

Alana Bloom: "What was done to you doesn't excuse what you did. Are you going to try to hurt Hannibal again? Is he safe?"

Will Graham: "From me? Or for you?"

Will reads her in an instant before she can answer. He's saddened by what he sees in her face, but covers.

Will Graham: "I'm going to stay as far away from Hannibal Lecter as I can. I suggest you do the same."

Alana looks at the dogs vying for Will's attention.

Will Graham: "Come on."

He leads the dogs into his house, leaving Alana in the cold.

INT. BAU - JACK CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - DAY

Jack Crawford sits down opposite Dr. Frederick Chilton.

Jack Crawford: "What can I do for you, doctor?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "It's what I can do for you. I'm offering my services on the Ripper case -- pro bono, of course."

Jack Crawford: "You'd like to be helpful expediting Hannibal Lecter's arrest?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I've consulted with the FBI on previous Ripper murders."

Jack Crawford: "You have an agenda with this investigation, Dr. Chilton."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Yes, I have an agenda. Living. I should be assigned an FBI escort. Everyone who believed Will Graham about Hannibal Lecter is dead."

Jack Crawford: "Except you."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Except me. I'd like to remain not dead for the foreseeable future."

Jack Crawford: "Do you have something substantial to contribute or just an opinion?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I have a witness. If Will is not a suspect, then he is a witness."

Jack Crawford: "To his own manipulation?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "We've had remarkable success recovering memories. He remembers so much of what was done to him."

Jack Crawford: "Why hasn't Will told me about this?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Because you told him his memories were meaningless."

Jack stares, feeling the blow.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I imagine Hannibal Lecter used the same coercive techniques on Miriam Lass that he used on Will Graham. He buried memories in both of them. I dug those memories out of Will, I can dig them out of Miriam."

Jack Crawford: "Miriam Lass is not your patient."

INT. FBI - MIRIAM LASS'S DORM - DAY

Miriam Lass wears a sports bra, throwing a strap across her shoulder and tightening the leather. A plastic cup is slid snug against her stump, fastened in place. The shots are close, tight, dreamy. Miriam, now with two arms, takes in the new prosthetic limb. She slowly lifts the new arm... the metal, Terminator-esque fingers move. She slides a lifelike skin glove over the metal prosthetic, making the arm suddenly seem incredibly lifelike. Miriam lifts both hands in front of her, regards them, then takes her real hand and scratches the back of the fake one.

Miriam scratches her prosthesis.

Miriam Lass: "Are you an FBI agent?"

Will Graham is in the room with her.

Will Graham: "No. I used to teach at the academy. Two days ago, I was an inmate at the Baltimore State Hospital for the Criminally Insane. Courtesy of the Chesapeake Ripper."

Miriam Lass: "The Guru told me the only person who demonstrated any practical understanding of the Ripper is you. Didn't mention you were a victim."

Will Graham: "The Guru?"

Miriam Lass: "Jack Crawford. We called him the Guru. He has a peculiar cleverness."

Will Graham: "The Guru tells me you don't remember much about what the Chesapeake Ripper did to you. I couldn't remember either."

Miriam Lass: "Couldn't?"

Will Graham: "I remember now. Not all of it. Pieces. I was under his influence. The Chesapeake Ripper used some kind of light to induce seizure responses in my brain. He created blackouts and lost time."

Miriam quietly breathes, struggling with the familiarity of what Will is telling her. Her voice is just above a whisper.

Miriam Lass: "I remember the light. He always stood in front of it, at a distance from me, silhouetted, very still."

The chamber music begins to fill her mind again.

Miriam Lass: "Like we were in the garden of the hurricane's eye. He would play chamber music. I still hear it."

Will reacts, hearing the familiar haunting solo cello that plagued his own nightmares.

Miriam Lass: "Then his voice, low and even, would pull me to him. Like a current."

A man is silhouetted by a hypnotic, strobing light. Hannibal Lecter's voice, Jack Crawford's voice, and a third, unidentified male voice all speak in an eerie chorus.

Voices: "You're waking now. Waking, calm. Waking in a pleasant room. Safe."

Miriam Lass: "I knew there were conversations. I would sometimes hear myself and wonder who was speaking with such intimate knowledge of my thoughts. He knows everything about me."

She catches Will clocking her scratching her prosthetic hand and becomes suddenly self-conscious.

Miriam Lass: "It itches. Like the arm is still there. At least I have something to scratch now. But how do I scratch the itch in my head?"

Will Graham: "We can help you remember, Miriam. You and I are part of his design. The Ripper wanted you free. He wanted me free, too."

Miriam Lass: "Neither of us is really free. He's not done. He told me he was going to kill me last and that's exactly what he intends to do."

Will Graham: "You're safe now."

Miriam Lass: "I won't be safe until he's dead."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter comes into the dark room. He moves toward the refrigerator, then stops and lifts his nose to the air.

Hannibal Lecter: "The same unfortunate aftershave. Too long in the bottle."

He opens the refrigerator door, and the light illuminates Will Graham pointing a gun at his head.

Will Graham: "Our last kitchen conversation was interrupted by Jack Crawford. I'd like to pick up where we left off. If memory serves, you were asking me if it'd feel good to kill you."

Hannibal Lecter: "You've given that some thought."

Will Graham: "You wanted me to embrace my nature, doctor. Just following the urges I kept down for so long, cultivating them as the inspirations they are."

Hannibal Lecter: "You never answered my question. How would killing me make you feel?"

Will Graham: "Righteous."

Hannibal Lecter: "Aren't you curious, Will? Why you? Why Miriam Lass? What does the Chesapeake Ripper want with you?"

Will Graham: "You tell me. How did Miriam Lass find you? You made sure no one could find you that way again."

Hannibal Lecter looks past the gun barrel, into Will's eyes.

Hannibal Lecter: "If I'm not the Ripper, you murder an innocent man. You better than anyone know what it is to be wrongly accused. You were innocent, Will, and no one saw it."

Will Graham: "I'm not innocent. You saw to that."

Hannibal Lecter: "If I am the Ripper and you kill me, who will answer your questions? Don't you want to know how it ends?"

Will doesn't respond. He just slowly steps backward into the shadows, disappearing into darkness. Hannibal Lecter watches the space where he stood.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - DAY (B&W)

The scene is in black and white. Hannibal Lecter opens the door, revealing Miriam Lass from two years ago.

Miriam Lass: "My name is Miriam Lass. I'm with the FBI. I would show you my credentials, but I'm actually just a trainee."

Hannibal Lecter: "Never just a trainee. An agent in training."

The scene shifts to color, to the present day. Miriam Lass stands there, haunted yet professional, with Jack Crawford behind her.

Hannibal Lecter: "Please come in."

He steps aside, and Miriam enters the office. Hannibal looks at Jack and then follows.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Miriam looks at Jack Crawford, who nods at her. She moves around the room. Hannibal Lecter is very aware of this, sensing an agenda.

Hannibal Lecter: "I would have been happy to come to your office, Jack."

Jack Crawford: "I wanted to do this here."

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm sure you have your reasons."

Miriam crosses to the table with Hannibal's drawings. Hannibal steps behind her as she leafs through them.

Miriam Lass: "These are beautiful. Yours?"

Miriam picks up a portrait drawing and studies it.

Hannibal Lecter: "I enjoy portraiture. A subject's mental processes betrayed only by the expression on their face."

Jack Crawford: "Miriam, I thought Dr. Lecter could be helpful during your recovery."

Hannibal Lecter: "The most-important aspect of a successful recovery is recognizing that life will never be the same."

Miriam Lass: "Then I'm well on my way to a successful recovery."

Jack Crawford: "The Chesapeake Ripper sent me a message from you. It was recorded shortly after you were taken."

Miriam Lass: "It's me? My voice?"

Jack Crawford: "Yes. I debated whether I should play it for you. Still debating."

Miriam Lass: "I want to hear it."

Jack presses "play" on his smart phone. Miriam listens to her terrified voice. Jack watches Hannibal Lecter watching her, steely.

Miriam Lass: "Jack... Jack, it's Miriam. I don't know where I am. I can't see anything. I was so wrong. Please, Jack. I don't wanna die like this."

Tears well in Miriam's eyes as the message cuts out. She remains quiet for a long moment, reeling.

Miriam Lass: "I don't remember it."

Miriam's hand absently scratches against her prosthetic.

Hannibal Lecter: "Would you like to try?"

We hear the ambient noise of Miriam's breathing, her heartbeat, her circulatory system.

Eerie Chorus of Voices: "You're waking now. Waking, calm. Waking in a pleasant room. Safe."

The chorus of voices unifies into a single voice.

Hannibal Lecter: "Open your eyes."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY

The drapes are drawn and the room is dark. Miriam now sits opposite Hannibal Lecter. A metronome and light pulse between them. Jack Crawford stands behind Hannibal, in the shadows. A phone line rings, waiting to be picked up.

Miriam holds a phone to her cheek, the light of the keypad the only source of illumination. The phone continues to ring until an automated answer.

Jack Crawford: "Jack Crawford."

A beep tells us to leave a message. The scene shifts.

INT. VIRGINIA BARN - CISTERN (FLASHBACK)

Miriam Lass stands in the dark cistern, feeling the walls. The illuminated keypad is the only source of light.

Miriam Lass: "Jack... Jack, it's Miriam."

Hannibal Lecter: "Tell me where you are."

Miriam Lass: "I don't know where I am."

Hannibal Lecter: "What do you see?"

Miriam Lass: "I can't see anything."

The scene returns to Hannibal Lecter's office. Jack watches Miriam from the shadows, hating this. Miriam's hand absently scratches her prosthesis.

Miriam Lass: "I was so wrong. Please, Jack. I don't want to die like this."

Hannibal Lecter: "Miriam, what was the last thing you remember before making that call, before waking in the darkness?"

She looks past the strobing metronome to Jack in the shadows. The shadows seem to recede around him even as the blackness deepens. As she watches, his torso suddenly sprouts wounds and implements, bursting backward from his body. He becomes a standing Wound Man. Miriam averts her eyes, glancing down to see she's holding the Wound Man drawing—the last thing she saw before Hannibal choked her unconscious.

Miriam Lass: "The Wound Man."

INT. BAU - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - DAY

A flower petal is under a magnifying lens, dusted to reveal a smudged, partial fingerprint. Jimmy Price and Brian Zeller are presenting to Jack Crawford and Alana Bloom.

Jimmy Price: "We found a fingerprint on a flower petal. A partial, smudged. Not enough points for a courtroom, but it triggered a match. Hannibal Lecter."

Alana looks shocked. Jack's world takes another turn.

Brian Zeller: "After all these murders, the Ripper's gonna leave a print now?"

Jack Crawford: "Will said whatever evidence we found would lead us away from the Chesapeake Ripper."

Brian Zeller: "We also found sodium amytal and scopolamine in Miriam's blood."

Alana Bloom: "Dr. Chilton used scopolamine and sodium amytal on both Gideon and Will during their therapy. One claimed to be the Chesapeake Ripper, the other accused Hannibal."

Jack Crawford: "'You've got the right box, just looking in the wrong corner.' Gideon pointed me right at him, told me Chilton was the Ripper."

Jimmy Price: "Wait. I'm confused. Who are we saying is the Chesapeake Ripper? Dr. Lecter or Dr. Chilton?"

Jack Crawford: "Bring them both in."

INT. DR. CHILTON'S HOUSE - ENTRY HALL - DAY

Dr. Frederick Chilton lets himself in through the front door and throws his keys onto a dresser. He walks into the house, throws his coat over a chair back, and then stops, listening. A faint, regular beeping can be heard, slow and rhythmic. He moves toward it. The sound grows louder at the foot of the stairs, and he starts to ascend, following the beeps like a beacon.

INT. DR. CHILTON'S HOUSE - UPSTAIRS LANDING - DAY

Dr. Frederick Chilton comes up the stairs onto the landing. The beeps are getting louder, a steady pulse. Confused and tense, he moves down the hall. The slow beep plays a double rhythm with his own faster-beating heart. The beeps get louder, then slower, winding down.

INT. DR. CHILTON'S HOUSE - GUEST BEDROOM - DAY

The slow beep becomes a solid tone as Dr. Frederick Chilton pushes open the door and steps inside. He stops dead. Abel Gideon—now missing all four limbs—lies on a bed. An IV drip is under one clavicle, wounds neatly bandaged. The tone rises up, becoming louder and louder in Chilton's head, overpowering his now-thundering heartbeat. Despite himself, Chilton moves forward, a combination of fascination and dread. All Gideon's limbs have been neatly removed. He stares, lifeless, at the ceiling. Dead.

Chilton stares until finally he breaks the spell. He knows he is in trouble. He turns and runs for the stairs, the tone receding behind him.

INT. DR. CHILTON'S HOUSE - ENTRY HALL - DAY

Dr. Frederick Chilton comes hard and fast down the stairs, panicked, and falls headlong over a packed suitcase at the foot of the stairs. It wasn't there before. Chilton is sprawled on the floor. He looks up as a pair of well-shined shoes appears before him. Hannibal Lecter now stands in front of him, dressed in his plastic kill suit. Chilton scrambles to his feet and backs away.

Hannibal Lecter: "Hello, Frederick."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Oh my god."

Hannibal Lecter regards him calmly. There is a sudden, insistent rap at the door. Two shadowy figures are seen through the glass.

Hannibal Lecter: "That will be the FBI."

Chilton goes to shout for help, but as he opens his mouth, Hannibal covers it with a chloroform pad.

Hannibal Lecter: "When you wake up, your only choice will be to run."

Chilton struggles against Hannibal's grip, but Hannibal is too strong, and Chilton weakens by the second. His world goes fuzzy as unconsciousness takes him. Hannibal's face slides in and out of focus. Chilton slowly falls to the ground. Hannibal's feet move away.

The knocking comes again.

Hannibal Lecter: "One moment, please..."

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

A kitchen timer starts to buzz. A hand clicks it off. Hannibal Lecter moves to the oven and opens the door, pulling out a tray onto the worktop. The roast looks fabulous, steaming and juicy. He savors the aroma and smiles, pleased. Brian Zeller and Jimmy Price are standing on the other side of the counter.

Hannibal Lecter: "Are you absolutely sure I can't interest you in a bite?"

Brian Zeller: "We need to get going, Dr. Lecter."

Hannibal Lecter: "Will we be long? Only asking if I should refrigerate or cover and cool on the counter?"

Jimmy Price: "Put it in the fridge."

INT. DR. CHILTON'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM/KITCHEN - DAY

Dr. Frederick Chilton's eyes are closed. He stirs, groans, licks his lips. He rubs his face with a hand, leaving a thick smear of blood down his cheek. His eyes open slowly, groggy. He looks down at himself.

He sits in an armchair, his clothes covered in blood. One hand holds a bloody chef's knife. A bloodied FBI-issue automatic handgun is in his lap. He takes this in, disbelieving, unable to remember. His own bloody footprints track across the floor from the kitchen, where two dead FBI agents have been displayed.

The first sits on the kitchen worktop, a curved gash in his abdomen, his intestines looped and tied into a large, ostentatious bow. The second is lying on the floor, kitchen knives and implements sticking from his bare torso—a conscious reconstruction of the Wound Man killing.

Chilton drops the knife. He stands, and the gun thumps to the floor. He staggers closer to the bodies. He puts a hand to his thumping head, leaving another blood smear. Dazed, he picks up the gun and grabs a couple of suitcases.

INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY

Will Graham sits with a case file, reading, the dogs at his feet. The pack suddenly jumps up as one, barking and agitated. Will moves to the window.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY

Dr. Frederick Chilton, his coat thrown over his bloody clothes, pulls his red sports car up before the house. The stolen gun lies on the passenger seat. He puts it in a pocket before getting out. He grabs his suitcases from the trunk and starts walking toward the house. As Chilton approaches, the front door opens and the dogs stream out, barking, onto the porch and down at him. He stops dead, frightened. He looks up at Will Graham as he comes closer.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "May I use your shower, please?"

INT. DR. CHILTON'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Gideon's head and torso lie on a stretcher. Jack Crawford stands near the dead FBI agents, staring as Gideon's body is wheeled through the house. Jimmy Price is with him.

Jimmy Price: "Gideon hasn't been dead long, no more than a couple of hours. Chilton's been cutting steaks off of him for days."

Brian Zeller emerges from the library, holding an old medical text. He approaches Jack, who stands over the Wound Man corpse.

Brian Zeller: "Chilton's shelves are filled with old medical books."

Zeller opens the book, revealing an illustration of the Wound Man.

Jack Crawford: "Wound Man."

Brian Zeller: "This illustration's in a lot of early surgical texts. It's the Ripper's sixth victim."

Jack Crawford: "Chilton was consulting on the Ripper case when Miriam disappeared. She must've talked to him, made the connection. Beverly made a connection, too."

Jack stares at the illustration, a cold feeling growing colder.

Jack Crawford: "Chilton's been part of the Ripper investigation since before Will Graham, before Hannibal Lecter, before Miriam Lass. He had access to case files, he knew everything the Ripper needed to know."

INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY

Will Graham watches as Dr. Frederick Chilton paces, freshly showered, clothes changed, hyped up.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I have the same profile as Hannibal Lecter. Same medical and psychology background. We are both doctors of note in our fields. Of course it would be me. Hannibal was never going to kill me. I'm his patsy. I have to leave the country. I'm leaving the country."

Will Graham: "If you run, you look guilty."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "You didn't run and you looked plenty guilty. Abel Gideon was half-eaten in my guest room. I have corpses on my property, you just threw up an ear."

Will Graham: "There's an APB on you right now. They've canceled your credit cards, they're tracing your phone."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I have cash and I tossed my phone. Jack Crawford thinks I killed two agents -- three agents. You know what tends to happen to people who do that? Shoot on sight."

Will Graham: "I'm going to prove that Hannibal Lecter is the Chesapeake Ripper."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I know you will. And when you do, I will read about it from a secure location and reintroduce myself to society at that time."

Chilton's head whips around as the low rumble of an approaching car sets the dogs to barking again. He whips out the gun from his pocket and points it at a suddenly-wary Will.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "What did you do?"

Will Graham: "I called Jack Crawford."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "No, no, no..."

He backs to the window, gun still on Will, and looks out. Jack Crawford is getting out of his car and walking toward the house. Will moves toward the front door.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "No. Stay there."

Will Graham: "You're not a killer, Frederick."

Will keeps walking. Chilton, behind the gun, knows he won't fire.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY

Will walks onto the porch to meet Jack Crawford. He comes down the steps. Jack's face is murderous.

Will Graham: "Why did you come alone, Jack?"

Jack Crawford: "Where is he?"

Will Graham: "Why did you come alone?"

Jack Crawford: "Is he in the house?"

Will Graham: "I told you everything isn't what it seems. The Chesapeake Ripper is still playing with us. All of us."

Jack Crawford: "I'm not playing."

Will Graham: "You going to kill Chilton? Jack up the law and get underneath it?"

Jack Crawford: "You wagging the same tongue that gave the order to kill Hannibal?"

Will Graham: "Difference is, Chilton's not the Chesapeake Ripper. Hannibal is."

Jack Crawford: "The Chesapeake Ripper isn't playing all of us, Will. He's playing you."

Jack goes to enter. Will steps in his way.

Will Graham: "Jack. Wait. Let me bring him out. He's got a gun."

Jack holds Will's gaze, then pulls out his own gun.

Jack Crawford: "Good."

He pushes past Will, walks up the steps, and steps into the house fast, gun first, ready to fire. He sees the back door swinging open.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - WOODS - DAY

The bare skeletal trees are black against the crisp white snow. Totally-inappropriate shoes crunch through the snow as Dr. Frederick Chilton trips and stumbles away from Will's house. Jack Crawford plows through the snow after him, gun at the ready, bloodlust high. Chilton stumbles, falls, dropping the gun. He grabs it up and fights to his feet, gasping, terrified.

Jack Crawford: "CHILTON?!!!"

The raw yell echoes through the woods. Chilton hears it around him as if surrounded and redoubles his efforts. He crosses a frozen stream, the ice cracking under his feet, the water below sucking off his shoes. He clambers up the other side. Jack's progress is faster, more determined. He follows the footprints, breaking into a run. He sees the limping silhouette of Chilton ahead.

Jack Crawford: "Chilton!"

He raises his gun and fires. The bullet scatters splinters from a tree as Chilton passes it. The receding echoes of the shot ring around the woods. Dr. Chilton staggers into a snow-filled clearing.

Jack Crawford: "Stop right where you are."

Chilton halts. He turns to face his hunter. Jack has his gun at arm's length, sighting down the barrel. As Jack approaches, Chilton drops to his knees in the snow, holding out his arms like a penitent. The gun falls from his fingers and nestles in the snow.

Jack Crawford moves toward Chilton, finger aching on the trigger. His nemesis is finally before him. He stops ten feet from Chilton, who gasps, exhausted, head down. His arms slowly fall to his sides. Jack's finger tightens on the trigger, conflicted. Chilton looks up at him, scared, exhausted, and empty.

INT. BAU - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - DAY

Dr. Frederick Chilton's face is now clean of blood. He looks exhausted, standing on a white sheet as he hands his clothes to Jimmy Price. Brian Zeller writes down the inventory.

Jimmy Price: "...one two-piece suit in charcoal gray, one white shirt, fifteen-inch collar, one billfold containing cash, credit cards and driver's license. One set of car keys..."

Chilton stares forward.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "I need to speak with Will Graham."

Brian Zeller: "I don't care what you need."

Their hatred is palpable.

Jimmy Price: "One Montblanc fountain pen in silver and black..."

INT. BAU - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Dr. Frederick Chilton now sits opposite Alana Bloom, cuffed to the table, wearing an orange jumpsuit.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Does it have to be you? It seems like a final indignity."

Alana Bloom: "Not like you to hide an achievement."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "The achievement isn't mine."

Alana Bloom: "Whose is it? Hannibal Lecter's?"

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Those are just words coming out of your mouth. No weight to them. No consideration they may be true."

Alana Bloom: "They're not true. You were using coercive therapies, influencing Abel Gideon and Will Graham to point the Ripper investigation in false directions."

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "You can't see it. And you won't see it until it's too late. Don't say I didn't warn you, Dr. Bloom."

In the viewing room, Jack Crawford and Miriam Lass watch the interview. She stares at Chilton, her prosthetic arm folded across her chest. She scratches it furiously with her other hand.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "In fact, I believe those should be my last words on the subject of the Ripper until my lawyer arrives."

Through the glass, from Miriam's perspective, Chilton turns his head toward her. Out of sync with his lips, we hear his voice.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "You're waking now. Waking, calm."

The image shifts. A distorted man is silhouetted by a hypnotic, strobing light. The distortion adjusts, revealing Frederick Chilton, silhouetted, holding his cane.

Dr. Frederick Chilton: "Waking in a pleasant room. Safe."

Back in the viewing room, Miriam is shaking. Jack watches her as she unravels, some giant feeling trying to escape. Tears fall down her cheeks.

Miriam Lass: "It's him. It's him. It's him."

Jack moves to her, her distress all the answer he needs, and grabs her in a bear hug, pulling her to him. A moan escapes her as she cries into his shoulder. She rocks against him and then pushes away. He releases her. He realizes too late that she now holds his gun. Miriam lifts the gun and aims, firing through the glass.

The bullet comes through the glass, which spiderwebs around the hole. The bullet hits Chilton in the face. His head snaps back and he goes over backward in a spray of blood as Alana dives for cover. Alana, on the floor, looks at Chilton, who lies half-up, half-down, his body held up awkwardly by the shackles on his wrists, blood ripping from his ravaged face to the floor.

Alana looks toward the bullet hole in the glass. Miriam and Jack are framed within it.

INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Classical music plays. An ornate clock shows 7:30. Next to it is an appointment book with a beautifully handwritten entry for 7:30-8:30: "Will Graham."

Hannibal Lecter sits in one of the two armchairs, a glass of red wine in hand, enjoying the music. A knock at the door disturbs his reverie. He places his glass down and goes to the door. He opens it to find Will Graham. Will has cut his hair—shorter, neater. Everything about him seems focused.

Hannibal Lecter: "Hello, Will."

Will Graham: "May I come in?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you intend to point a gun at me?"

Will Graham: "Not tonight."

He lets Will into the room.

Will Graham: "Are you expecting someone?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Only you."

Will Graham: "Kept my standing appointment open."

Hannibal Lecter: "And you're right on time."

Will Graham: "I have to deal with you. And my feelings about you. I think it's best if I do that directly."

Hannibal Lecter: "First you have to grieve for what is lost and what has changed."

Will Graham: "I've changed. You changed me."

Hannibal Lecter: "The friendship that we had is over. The Chesapeake Ripper is over."

Will Graham: "It had to be Miriam, didn't it? She was compelled to take his life so she could take her own back."

Hannibal Lecter: "How will you take your life back?"

Will Graham: "I'd like to resume my therapy."

Hannibal Lecter stares as Will sits in his familiar chair. After a long moment, Hannibal follows suit and sits opposite him. They are silhouetted in their chairs, regarding each other.

Hannibal Lecter: "Where shall we begin?"

The corners of Will's mouth threaten to curl.