A sliced yet untouched pot roast, dusted with mold. A common housefly buzzes into frame. We pull back to reveal we are in a grim family dinner.

INT. TURNER HOME - DINING ROOM - DAY

A pot roast turned rancid. Bugs crawling in the potatoes. And the Turner Family - Mother, Father, and two children - pitched forward onto the table from gunshot wounds to their heads. Resultant poolings of dried blood read like inky shadows on the dining table. Blood sprays a family portrait on the wall. At the head of the table sits Will Graham. He takes a breath, exhales, then closes his eyes.

A pendulum swings in the darkness of Will Graham’s mind, keeping rhythm with his heart beat. FWUM. FWUM. FWUM.

His eyes are closed. The pendulum is now outside his head. It arcs in front of the grim family dinner, that pale deathly pallor of those seated at the table become flush with color.

The pendulum arcs smoothly across frame - FWUM - shooing insects from pot roast. FWUM. Aromatic steam now rises from the roast as though it had been set down a moment before.

The pendulum swings across the table and the pool of blood in front of Mrs. Turner shrinks and recedes back toward her head. FWUM.

The pendulum swings in front of the table and the Turners begin to shift, blood receding, slowly sitting up one by one. FWUM. The blood flies off the family portrait. The crime scene has now been decriminalized in Will’s mind.

Will Graham opens his eyes, sitting at the table watching the Turner Family motionless in the tableau before their deaths.

Will inhales, able to smell the homemade meal. FWUM. FWUM. The pendulum stops swinging, snapping into place.

Each member of the Turner Family has a full plate in front of them. In front of Will, an empty place setting.

Will Graham: "Table has been set. Family dinner. I wasn’t invited. I take my seat at the empty plate. My seat. My place setting, next to Mrs. Turner. I am the guest of honor."

The youngest Turner holds a fork in her hand with a small stalk of broccoli impaled on its tines.

Will Graham: "No one has taken a bite of their dinner. Except the youngest. Unless you eat your growing foods, you won’t get any dessert."

The Youngest Turner pops the broccoli in her mouth.

Will Graham: "No one is bound. No one leaves the table. All afraid to move. Even the little ones behaved themselves. I brought my new family to this home invasion, controlling the Turners with threats of violence."

He stares dispassionately into middle distance.

Will Graham: "Threats that turned to action."

Three simultaneous gun shots ring out in the dining room.

Will Graham: "The Turner Family is executed simultaneously with the exception of Mrs. Turner. Who dies last. This is my design."

The Turner Family is now face down in their plates, with the exception of Mrs. Turner -- who stares directly at Will.

Will Graham: "I shoot Mrs. Turner, gun against the canvas of her forehead. Looking her directly in the eye when I pull the trigger."

BANG. Mrs. Turner's head rocks violently back before swinging forward into her plate. Will leans across the table holding a smoking gun.

Jack Crawford stands in the dining room doorway, watching Will -- who now wears rubber gloves and is no longer holding a gun, but his arm is still raised. A moment, then:

Jack Crawford: "What do you see, Will?"

Will Graham: "Family values."

Jack Crawford: "Whose family values?"

Off Will unable to answer that question...

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM/BEDROOM - DAY

Will’s pack of misfit dogs sniff and wander the house. Suddenly, they all go still. Tails motionless, heads turns to observe an offscreen presence with curious interest.

Hannibal Lecter appears at the front door, Will’s house lit up behind him. He holds up links of sausages. Dinner time.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM/BEDROOM - LATER

Dogs occupied, Hannibal Lecter stands before a cluttered bookshelf. He scans the bindings, pulls one out for a better look: an instruction manual on fly fishing. He raises an eyebrow.

A drawer on a dresser glides open. Hannibal Lecter inspects a pile of old t-shirts looking for clues to Will’s past -- instead he only finds white t-shirts, a dozen of them neatly folded. Telling in its own way.

A boat motor is unceremoniously displayed in a partially disassembled state. Through Will’s glasses, Hannibal Lecter picks up the pieces of the disassembled boat motor and puts them together effortlessly.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - OFFICE - LATER

Hannibal Lecter enters to find Will’s fly tying gear arranged on the table. There is a rack of completed flies. A vice, lamp, magnifying glass, yarns, threads, feathers, and hooks. Hannibal Lecter sits at the station, admires Will’s handiwork, such delicate lures for catching fish.

Hannibal Lecter applies himself to tying off an incomplete salmon fly, expertly using the tools of Will’s hobby -- thread, bobbin, scissors, pliers. His surgeon’s precision in play.

Having completed his work, Hannibal Lecter admires the fly and hook. He presses his thumb gently against the pointed barb, and keeps the pressure on until he draws a drop of blood. Without lingering on his act, Hannibal Lecter sucks the lone drop from his thumb-tip. The sound is not unlike a quick kiss.

EXT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - EVENING (BALTIMORE, MARYLAND)

The sprawling grounds of an elegant, self-funded psychiatric hospital.

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL HOBBS’ ROOM - EVENING

A private patient suite with many of the comforts of home.

Abigail Hobbs gazes in the mirror. The bandages on her neck have been removed and we see her fresh, angry scars above her white slip. She runs her fingers across the wound before tying a scarf around her neck to conceal it from the world.

Abigail Hobbs: "I can hide what happened to me. All I need is a scarf to pass. Or a turtleneck, the right high collar."

EXT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - GROUNDS - EVENING

Abigail Hobbs walks with Alana Bloom, a casual therapy session.

Alana Bloom: "Part of the process of recovery. And hiding what happened to you defeats the purpose of being here. Sharing will help normalize."

Abigail Hobbs: "I’m not normal. Not anymore."

Alana Bloom: "What happened to you isn’t normal."

Abigail Hobbs: "Some of these women aren’t even sharing. They speak in little girl voices telling everyone what was done to them and how they hurt without saying a word about it."

Alana Bloom: "Certain traumas can arrest vocal development. Victims can sometimes broadcast victimhood involuntarily."

Abigail Hobbs: "Not me."

Alana Bloom: "That’s not necessarily true. Your victimhood has a high profile, thanks to Freddie Lounds."

Abigail Hobbs: "I’m a celebrity victim. Someone here asked me if I kept my stained clothes. Like I was that girl who did oral with President Clinton."

Alana Bloom: "How did that make you feel?"

Abigail Hobbs: "Like I wanted to go home. But I don’t have a home anymore, do I?"

Alana Bloom: "You will. I’ll help you find it."

Abigail Hobbs: "Would’ve been my mom’s birthday yesterday. We were gonna climb Eagle Mountain to celebrate. Highest point in Minnesota, but it’s not really that high. Less than three hours to summit. You can see Lake Superior from there."

Alana Bloom: "We could go there and scatter your mother’s ashes, if you like."

Abigail Hobbs: "I would like that."

Alana Bloom: "Abigail, I want you to give the support groups another chance."

Abigail Hobbs: "Support groups are sucking the life out of me through a narrow straw."

Alana Bloom: "Isolating yourself can suck just as hard and through an even narrower straw. You have to find someone to relate to in this experience."

Hannibal Lecter scribbles in a patient notebook.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter looks up as the buzzer on his desk rings.

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Hannibal Lecter opens the door to find Alana Bloom waiting for him.

Alana Bloom: "Hi."

Hannibal Lecter: "Do you have an appointment?"

Alana Bloom: "Do you have a beer?"

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Alana Bloom clinks her beer bottle to Hannibal Lecter’s wine glass.

Hannibal Lecter: "Interesting day with Abigail?"

Alana Bloom: "The grief work, the trauma intervention, it’s all on course. But I think she may be wrestling with a low-grade depression."

Drolly eyeing the large swig Alana Bloom takes of her beer.

Hannibal Lecter: "She?"

Alana Bloom: "Nothing wrong with a little self-medication, right, Doctor? Professional neutrality be damned, it’s hard to see such a bright, young girl go so adrift."

Hannibal Lecter: "One can certainly lose perspective tucked away for weeks in an ivory tower. Perhaps it’s time Abigail’s released from clinical treatment."

Alana Bloom: "Released where? Back into the wild?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Spending each day immersed in tragedy may be doing more harm than good. Abigail should be out in the world finding her footing, giving her the confidence to move forward."

Alana Bloom: "Abigail is in no condition to tackle real-world issues like where she’s going to live, what to do about school, hell, where her next meal is going to come from."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m not suggesting abandonment."

Alana Bloom: "You and Will both feel responsible but do you really think it’s wise to insert yourselves in her life?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I am qualified to help her."

Alana Bloom: "You’re the sanest man I know."

Hannibal Lecter: "I would agree."

Alana Bloom: "You saved her life. But it doesn’t change the fact that Abigail’s been through what she’s been through."

Hannibal Lecter: "Was there when she went through it."

Alana Bloom: "I can’t tell you what to do. But if you insist on taking a personal interest in her welfare, then you’d better understand, you can’t walk away, no matter what the outcome."

Hannibal Lecter: "We break it, we buy it?"

Alana Bloom: "This is a girl who was very attached to her parents. Overly so, in fact. You stepping in as a surrogate would only be a crutch. Abigail needs to work things out for herself in a safe, clinical environment. That will give her the confidence to move forward."

Seeing Alana Bloom isn’t about to budge, Hannibal Lecter bows his head.

Hannibal Lecter: "I defer to the passion of my esteemed colleague."

Alana Bloom: "Have soapbox, will travel."

Hannibal Lecter: "Passion’s good. Gets blood pumping."

INT. TURNER HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (BANGOR, MAINE)

Jack Crawford strides past the few local police who control the scene as his team gathers evidence. Jimmy Price stands, photographing the dinner table of death. Brian Zeller is in a crouch, checking wound angles. Beverly Katz collects fingerprints from a glass of Sunny-D.

Jack Crawford finds Will at a remove, looking at family photographs.

Jack Crawford: "Karen and Roger Turner. Childhood sweethearts. Owned a successful Real Estate business. Pillars of the community. Three children."

Will Graham: "Minus one."

Jack Crawford: "A son, Jesse, disappeared last year. Last confirmed sighting had him boarding an RV at a rest area on route forty-seven. Possible runaway, probable abduction."

Will Graham: "Or both."

Jack Crawford: "Hundreds of tips, but not a single one held up past lunchtime. When misery rains, she pours."

This sentiment is counter to the smiling faces in the photos.

Will Graham: "Holidays, vacations, milestones... never reveals the whole picture."

Jack Crawford: "Who wants to fill their scrapbook with arguments and dirty laundry?"

Will Graham: "False faces in family portraits. Layers and layers of lies betrayed by a sad glint in a child’s eyes."

Jimmy Price snaps a photo of the dinner table.

Jimmy Price: "Norman Rockwell with a bullet."

Jack Crawford: "Any signs of forced entry?"

Beverly Katz: "Perimeter is clean of scoring and rupture. No broken windows or torn screens. It’s all sealed up tight."

Jack Crawford: "They probably rang the doorbell."

Beverly Katz: "I’ve got bullet holes on the upper sections of the wall and ceiling."

Jack Crawford: "Pull the slugs for ballistics."

Beverly Katz: "If they aren’t frangible, it shouldn’t be a problem."

Brian Zeller: "Those elevated termination points match what I see on these bodies --"

Zeller moves toward the table, indicating what he means.

Brian Zeller: "-- angled cranial impacts, coupled with acute exit wounds and conical spray, the shooter was firing from low to high, probably crouched."

Jimmy Price: "Or maybe they were Hobbits."

This odd information strikes a chord of epiphany for Will, he moves back toward that collection of family photographs.

Will Graham: "How long since Jesse was abducted?"

Jack Crawford: "Just over a year."

Returning to the stack of photos, Will stops on one in particular: a much younger version of the missing boy. Six-year-old Jesse Turner holds a stuffed octopus, one of its dangling arms in his mouth. His mother sweetly looks on.

INT. B.A.U - MORGUE - DAY

The corpses of Mother Turner, Father Turner, and their two children (in body bags or covered in sheets) are presented on slabs for inspection.

Jack Crawford faces Zeller, Price, Katz, and Graham. He’s like a demanding father, presiding over his children as they present what they’ve just learned at school. Will stands slightly apart, not quite fitting into this surrogate family.

Brian Zeller: "I’m glad we didn’t have guns in my house. I would’ve shot my sisters to get them out of the bathroom."

Beverly Katz: "I liked having a big family."

Jimmy Price: "My parents gave me a gift. A twin. Why wouldn’t you want two of me?"

Brian Zeller: "Must’ve been an only child."

Will Graham: "Why do you say that?"

Brian Zeller: "Family friction is a catalyst for personality development."

An odd remark, but Beverly swoops in to take the sting away.

Beverly Katz: "I was the oldest, so all the friction rolled down hill."

Jack Crawford: "The attention and responsibilities given to firstborn children prime them for future success."

Beverly Katz: "Here I am. Livin’ the dream."

Will Graham: "Any favoring of another sibling could undermine the oldest’s ability to handle stress."

Beverly Katz: "My baby sister got away with murder. She had ‘em all fooled."

Jimmy Price: "I thought middle were the problems."

Brian Zeller: "The middle is the sweet spot."

Will Graham: "Always trying to figure out where they fit in. Forces them to use different strategies navigating up and down developmental spectrums. They can be great politicians. Or lousy ones."

Jack Crawford, who has been studying the crime scene photos as he looks over each of the bodies, observes:

Jack Crawford: "All of the victims have defensive wounds. Except for Mrs. Turner."

Jack Crawford hands Will the crime scene photos of Mrs. Turner.

Will Graham: "There’s acceptance in her body position. Forgiveness, even."

Will realizes that he missed something that Jack didn’t.

Jack Crawford: "What kind of victim forgives her killer at the moment of her death?"

Never taking his eyes off Jesse’s mother.

Will Graham: "A mother."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter sits opposite Will, smiling warmly before asking:

Hannibal Lecter: "Tell me about your mother."

Will Graham: "That’s some lazy psychiatry, Dr. Lecter. Low hanging fruit."

Hannibal Lecter: "I suspect that fruit is on a high branch, very difficult to reach."

Will Graham: "So’s my mother. I never knew her."

Hannibal Lecter: "An interesting place to start."

Will Graham: "Tell me about your mother. Let’s start there. Quid pro quo."

A fan of the language, Hannibal Lecter enjoys Will’s use of Latin.

Hannibal Lecter: "Both my parents died when I was very young. The proverbial orphan until I was adopted by my Uncle Robertas when I was 16."

Will considers that, understanding Hannibal a little more clearly than before -- or so he thinks.

Will Graham: "You have orphan in common with Abigail Hobbs."

Hannibal Lecter: "I think we’ll discover you and I have a great deal in common with Abigail. She’s already demonstrated an aptitude for the psychological. Quid pro quo."

Will is unwilling to return the volley.

Will Graham: "There’s something so foreign about family. Like an ill-fitting suit. Never connected to the concept."

Hannibal Lecter: "You created a family for yourself."

Will Graham: "I created a pack of strays. Thanks for feeding them while I was away."

Hannibal Lecter nods his “you’re welcome,” then:

Hannibal Lecter: "I was referring to Abigail Hobbs."

Hannibal Lecter lets Will get used to that idea, then:

Hannibal Lecter: "Tell me about the Turner Family. Were they affluent? Well to do?"

Will Graham: "They lived like they had money."

Hannibal Lecter: "Did your family have money, Will?"

Will Graham: "We were poor. I followed my father from the boat yards in Biloxi and Greenville to lake boats on Erie."

Hannibal Lecter: "Always the new boy at school? Always the stranger?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

Hannibal Lecter: "Harboring a half-buried grudge against the rich?"

Will Graham: "Aren’t we all."

Hannibal Lecter: "What grudge was Mrs. Turner’s killer harboring against her?"

Will Graham: "Motherhood."

Hannibal Lecter: "Not motherhood, a perversion of it."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter dishes a generous portion of sausage onto Jack Crawford’s plate. Jack fills his lungs with the aroma.

Hannibal Lecter: "A modified Bouidin Noir from Ali-Bab’s Gastronomie Pratique."

Jack Crawford: "Ali-Bab?"

Hannibal Lecter: "An engineer who, after losing his sense of appetite, spent the remainder of his life cooking for his brother. He developed a theory that great cultures meet their ends solely as a result of their cuisines becoming too decadent."

Jack Crawford: "You’ll meet your end if my wife catches you fattening up my liver."

Hannibal Lecter: "Perfect for foie gras. You promised to deliver your wife to my dinner table."

Jack Crawford: "We’ve got to polish our act. Can’t have you diagnosing our marital problems in one fell swoop. What am I about to put in my mouth?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Rabbit."

Jack Crawford: "Should have hopped faster."

Hannibal Lecter: "Yes, he should have. But fortunately for us, he did not."

Jack takes a bite and savors the rich taste of blood sausage.

Jack Crawford: "Our friend Will seemed haunted today. More than usual. Thought maybe it was the nature of the case. A murdered family."

Hannibal Lecter: "I doubt the age and relationship of the victims he’s investigating would affect his professionalism."

Jack Crawford: "Then what would?"

Hannibal Lecter: "We don’t know what nightmares lie coiled beneath Will’s pillow."

Jack Crawford: "We don’t? You should."

Hannibal Lecter: "The first small bond to a killer itches and stings like a leech, that may be the distraction."

Jack Crawford: "Maybe it’s not such a small bond. Children killing other children. Not an unfamiliar notion for Will."

Hannibal Lecter: "You still suspect Abigail Hobbs in her father’s crimes."

Jack Crawford: "Doesn’t matter what I suspect. It matters what I can prove. Ms. Hobbs has been absolved of any crime."

Hannibal Lecter: "Yet?"

Jack Crawford: "The nightmare under Will’s pillow may be that he was wrong about her."

Hannibal Lecter: "A more innocuous theory."

Jack Crawford: "Please."

Hannibal Lecter: "Children transport us to our childhoods. Will may feel the tug of life before the FBI, before you. Simpler times in boat yards with dad. That life is an anchor streamed behind him in heavy weather. He needs an anchor, Jack."

INT. B.A.U. - FORENSICS LAB - DAY

Beverly Katz inspects a pair of boys' sneakers. They have well-worn soles, a duct-taped rip in the canvas upper, a doodle on the rubber toe cap. Jimmy Price dusts for prints at a nearby table, everything from video game controllers to a flush handle from a toilet. He’s currently dusting a soda pop can collected from an evidence crate.

Jimmy Price: "Got the blurred print of a nose off a soda-pop can. Someone could use a Biore blackhead strip."

Beverly Katz: "One pair of size-six sneakers from the Turner house. Tread on left indicates uneven leg length."

Jimmy Price: "Is that unusual?"

Brian Zeller works on the four bodies of the Turner family, discreetly covered by sheets.

Brian Zeller: "Not in a 12 year-old. Growth plates are all out of whack. One foot’s bigger than another. One leg is longer. Puberty is in full effect."

Jimmy Price: "I’ll say. Lived in the Turner’s house for a week after they were dead. Ordered pizza and Pay Per View Movies. Porn. Lots of porn."

Beverly Katz: "There’s a strong bond of aggressive and sexual drives that occurs in sadists at an early age."

Brian Zeller: "I didn’t turn out to be a sadist."

Beverly Katz: "How did Jesse Turner turn out? No one has seen him in almost a year."

Brian Zeller: "I’ve extrapolated present height and weight from abduction stats."

Brian Zeller measures the corpses of the other Turner kids.

Brian Zeller: "Even with the usual growth spurt between eleven and twelve, he’d be at most around four-and-a-half feet tall. Maybe eighty pounds."

Jimmy Price dusts a video game controller from an evidence box, pulling prints and scanning them into the computer.

Jimmy Price: "God’s gift to trace analysts. Gorgeous fingerprints all over these things. No matches, but they’re gorgeous. Nothing forecasts violence like a first person shooter."

Beverly Katz: "Isolated 7 pairs of shoe prints, filtered out the Turners, including Jesse’s, so we’re down to three UNSUBS. Sneakers are a size 7, a 3-and-a-half and a boy’s 11."

Brian Zeller: "The Lost Boys."

Jimmy Price studies the point comparison of the fingerprint he just fed into the computer. Several dots of similarities light up across the print grid -- a match.

Jimmy Price: "Just found one of them."

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL - DAY

Will Graham stands in front of a classroom full of F.B.I. trainees, mid-lecture on an as-yet unexplored killer.

Will Graham: "Most of the time in sexual assaults the bite mark has a livid spot in the center, a suck bruise. In certain cases, they do not. For some killers, biting may be a fighting pattern as much as sexual behavior."

Jack Crawford enters, crossing to the front of the hall.

Jack Crawford: "Class dismissed. Everybody out. What did I just say?"

The F.B.I. trainees gather their books and quickly exit.

Will Graham: "You’re making it difficult to provide an education, Jack."

Jack Crawford: "We found a match for a set of prints pulled from the Turner house. They belong to Connor Frist, a 13 year-old from Huntsville."

Will Graham: "Another kid?"

Jack Crawford: "Another missing kid. Vanished 10 months ago. Case never solved."

Will Graham: "Good news, Mr. and Mrs. Frist. Your son’s alive. Bad news, he’s a suspect in four murders."

Jack Crawford: "Four so far."

Will Graham: "How many kids in the Frist family?"

Jack Crawford: "Three. Same as the Turners."

Will Graham: "Oh, god."

Jack Crawford: "We’re ready when you are. And you’re ready right now. Let’s go."

Will Graham: "We’re ready?"

Jack Crawford: "We have a Gulfstream standing by at Andrews Airforce Base. Borrowed it from Interior. The basic lab stuff will be on it. We’ll be there within the hour if we leave now."

Will Graham: "You expecting a crime scene?"

A Norman Rockwell-style Holiday Greeting Card featuring the Frist Family gathered around the Christmas Tree.

Burl Ives (Needle Drop): "Have a holly, jolly Christmas."

The Christmas card lowers, clearing frame.

INT. FRIST HOME - LIVING ROOM - DAY

The home is unseasonably decorated for the Christmas holiday. Through the artificially frosted windows, there is a flurry of movement... armed, dark-clad figures creeping in swiftly and silently, moving along the outside of the house.

Burl Ives (Needle Drop): "It’s the best time of the year. I don’t know if there’ll be snow..."

A gloved finger enters frame and hits the pause button on an MP3 player, silencing Burl Ives and his misplaced holiday cheer.

Jack Crawford has turned off the music, surveying the scene with Will Graham, Zeller, Price and Katz at his side as dark-clad FBI agents fan through the home, weapons at the ready.

A well-decorated and colorfully illumined Christmas tree reaches to the high ceiling. Dozens of Christmas presents ring the bottom of the pine. Most have been roughly unwrapped and hastily opened, shredded by feral kinder. Several other scattered presents have remained untouched.

The Frist family, mother, father and two children gathered around the tree in their pajamas and robes, partially concealed by tattered and torn gift wrap. All dead. And have been for some time.

The family dog trots out from behind the Christmas tree, carrying a chewed-off arm in its mouth. The dog drops the arm at Will’s feet.

Will Graham: "Merry Christmas."

INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY

Brian Zeller casually examines the partially eaten tissue of Mr. Frist’s throat.

Brian Zeller: "At least the dog didn’t starve."

Will Graham, Zeller, Price and Katz examine the dead Frist family, Mother, Father and two children (discreetly covered) as Jack Crawford looks on.

Jack Crawford: "Mr. Frist and the children killed first... Mrs. Frist saved for last. Same as the Turner’s."

Will Graham: "Not exactly the same. The boys didn’t stay. Something went wrong."

Beverly Katz: "Not a single present under the tree for Mrs. Frist. Who doesn’t buy their mom a Christmas present?"

Will Graham: "Took her presents, took her motherhood."

Jack Crawford: "Who was the additional corpse in the fireplace?"

The edge of a charred skull features incinerated fabric, feathers in the ashes around it.

Will Graham: "I’d say Connor Frist."

Zeller and Katz inspect Mrs. Frist's corpse. Just below her hairline, a puckered entry wound stands out against her smooth, pale skin.

Brian Zeller: "Angled cranial impact means the shooter fired from low to high."

Jack Crawford: "Shooting her once wasn’t enough."

Zeller uses his gloved hands to part Mrs. Frist's hair above the entry wound revealing dried, matted blood.

Brian Zeller: "Bullet deflected off the curvature of her skull, and travelled beneath the scalp to its final resting spot at the base of her neck."

Jack Crawford: "It didn't kill her."

Beverly Katz: "Hydrostatic shock of shell hitting skull would’ve caused brain damage."

Will Graham: "Her body went into convulsions. Conner Frist went into a panic. He had been prepped to shoot his mother, but not watch her suffer."

Zeller turns Mrs. Frist's head to the side revealing another entry wound that is clearly bigger.

Brian Zeller: "Shot her again to put her out of her misery. Different gun."

Beverly Katz: "Larger caliber."

Jimmy Price: "So someone else shot Connor’s mom."

Jack Crawford: "Connor couldn't put his panic back in the bottle. So he was shot too."

Will Graham: "In anger. By the different gun. With the larger caliber. A gun that wasn’t used at the Turner house where everything went as planned."

Beverly moves to the burnt corpse and pulls a charred feather from his skull.

Beverly Katz: "Goose down. There was a pillow under his head."

Jack tries to puzzle it out.

Jack Crawford: "Connor Frist is murdered because he can’t bring himself to finish off his mother, but afterwards he's treated with compassion and given a ceremonial send-off to the hereafter."

Will Graham: "Whoever shot him... disowned him."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - EVENING

The door opens and Hannibal Lecter smiles warmly and greets Will.

Hannibal Lecter: "Good evening. Please come in."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Hannibal Lecter studies Will and the wrapped gift on his lap.

Hannibal Lecter: "Has Christmas come early? Or late?"

Will stares, then shakes off the murderous association.

Will Graham: "It was for Abigail."

Hannibal Lecter: "Was?"

Will Graham: "Thought better of it. Wasn’t thinking clearly. I was upset when I bought it. Maybe still am."

Hannibal Lecter: "You bare gifts when you’re angry?"

Will Graham: "Better gifts than teeth."

Hannibal Lecter: "What is it?"

Will Graham: "Magnifying glass. Fly tying gear."

Hannibal Lecter: "Teaching her how to fish. Her father taught her how to hunt."

Will Graham: "That’s why I thought better of it."

Hannibal Lecter: "Feeling paternal, Will?"

Will Graham: "Aren’t you?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Yes. Our good friend Dr. Bloom has advised against taking too personal an interest in Abigail’s welfare. You break it, you bought it."

Will Graham: "Can’t break what’s already broken."

Hannibal Lecter: "Can’t you? Tell me. Why were you so angry?"

Will Graham: "I’m angry about these boys. I’m angry cause I know when I find them, I can’t help them. I can’t give them back what they gave away."

Hannibal Lecter: "Family."

Will Graham: "Yes."

Hannibal Lecter: "Freddie Lounds has coined these young killers the Blood Brothers."

Will Graham: "We call them the Lost Boys."

Hannibal Lecter: "Abigail is lost, too. Perhaps it is our responsibility, yours and mine, to help her find her way."

INT. DINER - DAY

Eva sits at a back booth with four boys - C.J. Lincoln (14), Jesse Turner (12), and Chris O’Halloran (10). Each boy has ordered a milkshake, but unlike the others, Chris hasn’t touched his. Eva seems distant, distracted.

C.J. Lincoln: "Don’t be sad about Connor."

Eva: "Connor didn’t choose us. He tried but I guess I didn’t do a very good job being his mother."

C.J. Lincoln: "It’s not your fault."

Eva: "I couldn’t make him understand. The family you’re born into isn’t really family. Those are just people you didn’t choose. You have to make family. That’s what we’re doing. We’re making our family."

Chris O’Halloran works up the courage to ask:

Chris O’Halloran: "What happened to your family?"

C.J. Lincoln: "We’re her family."

Chris O’Halloran: "I meant your other family."

Eva: "I had a brother like you boys have brothers. He showed me that the family you think is family is just a stepping stone to real family."

C.J. Lincoln: "You have to step on that stone."

Eva: "And then you have to step over it. Like C.J. did. And Jesse. But Connor, he couldn’t make the leap. You feeling okay, sweetie?"

C.J. Lincoln: "He’s fine."

Eva: "C.J."

With C.J. put back in his place, Eva looks around at her little brood and smiles brightly at Chris O’Halloran.

Eva: "You should be excited to go back home. Even if it is to say goodbye. We’re your family now, Christopher. And you can only have one family."

A laptop computer screen fills frame. Two Amber Alert photos appear side-by-side on screen: one of Jesse Turner, the other of Connor Frist.

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL - DAY

Will sits alone at the table in front of the room. Beverly Katz enters. Studying the photos of the two boys, Will doesn’t look up. Not much can distract him when he’s concentrating.

Beverly Katz: "Ever heard of Willard Wigan? He’s this artist who does micro sculptures, like putting the Obamas in the eye of a needle. He’s so focused that he can work between beats of his heart. I guess archers do that too, right?"

Will Graham: "Hm?"

Beverly Katz: "What are you looking at?"

Beverly Katz moves around to see what has captured Will’s attention. It’s only now that he acknowledges her presence.

Will Graham: "These kids are both small. Underweight for their age."

Beverly Katz: "You think there’s a connection?"

Will Graham: "I’m thinking possible ADHD diagnoses for both boys. Ritalin, Focalin, any medication containing methylphenidate can affect appetite and slow long-term growth in kids."

A beat as both co-workers inspect the two photos.

Beverly Katz: "Another thing about Willard Wigan? He had a lonely childhood. He used his tiny sculptures as an escape."

Will Graham: "Who’s Willard Wigan?"

Beverly Katz smiles.

Beverly Katz: "Price got a hit from the ballistics-matching program he’s been running on the two family murders. The bullet that put Mrs. Frist out of her misery matches three used in a murder in Fort Smith, Arkansas a year ago. Mother of a 13-year-old boy shot to death with her own gun."

Will Graham: "13-year-old milk carton material?"

An Amber Alert photo of C.J. Lincoln is displayed. He’s dark-haired, thin, and wears a smirk.

Jack Crawford: "C.J. Lincoln disappeared six months before his mother’s murder and hasn’t been heard from since."

INT. B.A.U. - BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE SERVICES - DAY

The picture of C.J. Lincoln is displayed on a monitor, along with his juvenile rap sheet. Jack, Will, Zeller, Price and Katz are gathered around the monitor studying C.J. Lincoln.

Will Graham: "He has none of the characteristics of a sociopath or a sadist."

Jack Crawford: "No shoplifting, no malicious destruction of property, no assault and no battery. He was kind to animals for god’s sake."

Will Graham: "But the firearm says we’re looking at Peter Pan to our Lost Boys."

Jack Crawford: "It requires a sophisticated level of manipulation to convince boys to kill their families in cold blood."

Will Graham: "Kindness to animals doesn’t suggest that kind of sophistication."

Jack Crawford: "He’s older, been out in the world. Could’ve picked up a few tricks."

INT. CONVENIENCE STORE - DAY

C.J. Lincoln watches a woman in her 40s named Eva with her young boy of about 10 named Chris. Chris is distant and numb, perhaps a developmentally challenged child. Eva fumbles through her purse standing at the check-out counter. Chris turns to see he is being watched. C.J. Lincoln’s cold, dead stare cuts right through Chris, who shrinks from the other boy’s gaze. After a moment, Eva looks up from her purse and realizes:

Eva: "Oh, honey."

Eva begins clutching napkins off the counter next to the spinning hot dog warmer, sopping up the urine from the floor as she apologizes profusely to the Convenience Store Clerk.

Eva: "I’m so sorry. He’s never done this before. I’ll pay for the napkins."

Convenience Store Clerk: "Don’t worry about it."

Eva feels Chris’s forehead, putting her cheek to his cheek to check his temperature.

Eva: "Are you feeling okay? You have a fever? You don’t feel warm."

Clerk hands her a plastic bag for the urine-stained napkins.

Eva: "Thank you. I’m so embarrassed. But you shouldn’t be embarrassed. This happens with little bladders."

He doesn’t talk but his eyes drift back to C.J. Lincoln, who is no longer standing in the Convenience Store.

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL HOBB’S ROOM - DAY

Abigail Hobbs studies Hannibal Lecter as he waits by the door.

Abigail Hobbs: "I don’t think I’m allowed to leave after I climbed the fence."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’ve made arrangements. You could say I’m one of your guardians."

Abigail Hobbs: "Where are we going?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Home. My home. I thought you might enjoy it if I cooked for you. I’ll have you back before bedtime."

Abigail Hobbs: "Can I spend the night? I don’t like sleeping here. I have bad dreams."

Hannibal Lecter: "You have to sleep in your own bed."

Abigail Hobbs: "This isn’t my bed."

Hannibal Lecter: "Tell me about your bad dreams."

Abigail Hobbs: "I had one where Marissa is sending me picture texts. Like crime scene photos. Of Nicholas Boyle, gutted."

Hannibal Lecter: "How you left him."

Abigail Hobbs: "Even though she’s dead, I’m afraid Marissa’s gonna tell everyone I killed him and they’ll think I’m just like my dad. Sorry. I can’t really talk about this in group."

Hannibal Lecter: "There are people here who open their mouths and every sin against them can come tumbling out. You don’t have that luxury, Abigail."

Abigail Hobbs tosses the book on her bed and looks for her coat.

Abigail Hobbs: "I just have to get used to lying."

Hannibal Lecter: "You must only lie about one thing. And when you’re with me, you don’t have to lie about anything."

Abigail Hobbs: "In the dream, I wonder how I’d live with myself knowing what I did."

Hannibal Lecter: "And when you’re awake?"

She shrugs on her coat, thoughtful.

Abigail Hobbs: "And when I’m awake, I know I can live with myself. I know I will just get used to what I did."

Hannibal Lecter studies her with a sense of paternal pride.

Abigail Hobbs: "Does that make me a sociopath?"

Hannibal Lecter: "No. It makes you a survivor."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - KITCHEN - DAY

Mushrooms bound like a flower in a crystal cup blossom and open in piping hot water. Tomatoes roast as Hannibal Lecter cuts potatoes in perfect half-inch cubes, tossing them into a pan with whole unpeeled garlic gloves and thyme. He grinds fresh meat, which also is tossed into the sizzling pan as Abigail Hobbs looks on from nearby.

Hannibal Lecter: "It’s important to know when it’s time to turn the page. Have you thought about applying to schools?"

Abigail Hobbs: "My dad killed girls at all the schools I applied to."

Hannibal Lecter: "Perhaps that can wait then."

Abigail Hobbs: "I want to work for the F.B.I."

Hannibal Lecter’s face cracks into a warm grin.

Hannibal Lecter: "I would certainly feel safer if you were in the hallowed halls of the F.B.I. protecting my interests."

Abigail Hobbs: "They wouldn’t let me, would they? Because of what my dad did."

Hannibal Lecter: "Only if they believe that is in your nature, too."

Abigail Hobbs: "Nature versus nurture."

Hannibal Lecter: "We don’t invent our natures, Abigail. They’re issued to us, with our lungs and pancreas and everything else. Can’t fight it."

Abigail Hobbs: "I don’t know what my nature is."

Hannibal Lecter: "You are not your father’s daughter. Not anymore."

Abigail Hobbs: "What would’ve happened to my dad if you guys didn’t kill him?"

Hannibal Lecter: "We live in a primitive time, Abigail. Neither savage nor wise. He’d be exactly where he is now. Be grateful for your scars."

Abigail Hobbs: "Grateful."

Hannibal Lecter: "Our scars have the power to remind us that the past was real. Anchors us. We all need to be anchored."

Abigail Hobbs goes quiet.

Hannibal Lecter: "What if it weren’t so painful anymore to think of him?"

Abigail Hobbs: "My dad?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Have you ever taken psilocybin?"

Abigail Hobbs: "Mushrooms? That’s what’s in the tea?"

Hannibal Lecter: "There are those psychiatrists who believe altered states could be used to access traumatic memories."

Abigail Hobbs: "I have all the access to traumatic memories I need. Unlimited access."

Hannibal Lecter: "Which is why we need to supplement them with positive associations. No more bad dreams, Abigail."

Abigail Hobbs: "You want me to do drugs?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I want you to do this drug. With my supervision. Where it’s safe. Do you trust me?"

INT. B.A.U. - JACK'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Jack, Zeller, Katz, and Price hover around the case board that bears the photos of each of the boys they've identified as taking part in the family killings. It also includes a time line of their respective abductions, the dates of the murders they participated in, and a map pinpointing where each of the murders took place.

Jack twists a push pin into the map at Bangor, Maine.

Jack Crawford: "Bangor, Maine. Stamford, Connecticut. And most recently, Reston, Virginia."

Jimmy Price: "That places each of the murders approximately five hundred miles from the one before it."

Brian Zeller: "You’re trying to attach a geographical pattern to murders that took place weeks apart."

Will Graham: "Other patterns too. Our shooters are minors. Middle children from traditional affluent families."

Beverly Katz: "They’re not traveling by Greyhound."

Jimmy Price: "I drove my dad’s car when I was 14."

Jack Crawford: "They’re moving southbound, we’re looking somewhere on the border of Georgia and North Carolina."

He circles the area on the map.

Brian Zeller: "There's hundreds of towns in this area. Off every freeway ramp."

Jack Crawford: "Got a better idea?"

Brian Zeller: "Throw darts."

He wilts under Jack’s gaze.

Will Graham: "There’s a pattern. Less to do with geography than psychology."

Jack Crawford: "What kind of kid would do this?"

Will Graham: "And what kind of kid would follow a kid who did this?"

Beverly Katz: "The shepherd and his flock."

Jimmy Price: "When a sheep ran away, the shepherd used to break its leg to keep it from running away again. It forced the sheep to rely on the shepherd."

Beverly Katz: "Cruel-to-be-kind."

Will Graham: "Animals remember the voice of a trusted, familiar person. They also remember people who inflict abuse on them."

Jack Crawford: "There’s no indication these kids came from abusive families."

Will Graham: "Capture-bonding. A passive, psychological response to a new master. It’s been an essential survival tool for a million years. Bond with your captor, you survive. Don’t, you’re breakfast."

Jack Crawford: "Get files on every missing boy within 200 miles of North Carolina."

An empty tea cup shifts and distorts at first slightly, then more aggressively, appearing to demolecularize as a hand passes through it. A shattering crash of china reveals we are --

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Abigail Hobbs stares at the shattered tea cup on the floor. From her perspective, Hannibal Lecter’s voice and movements are thick, plodding.

Abigail Hobbs: "Doctor Bloom said this was okay?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Not at all. We often have a difference of opinion."

Abigail Hobbs: "Another secret for us."

Hannibal Lecter: "You and I will have many secrets. Infusing psilocybin into the bloodstream before psychotherapy can elicit a positive, even spiritual, experience for patients."

Abigail Hobbs: "I’m not your patient."

Hannibal Lecter: "No, you’re my guest. Psychological trauma is an affliction of the powerless. I want to give you your power back."

Abigail Hobbs: "I don’t feel good."

Hannibal Lecter: "That feeling will pass. Allow it to wash over you, through you. Let me be your guide, Abigail."

Abigail Hobbs eyes the food Hannibal Lecter’s preparing and the orange juice dripping into a glass from a Philippe Starck juicer.

Abigail Hobbs: "You’re making breakfast for dinner?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Not just breakfast. High Life eggs. A chef in Spain called Muro claims he invented it in the 19th century."

Hannibal Lecter throws an egg in the air, catches it on the edge of a knife, cracking it and holding it in place as the contents drool onto a slice of brioche with a hole already in a pan. The sausage sizzles and crackles in its own pan, almost done.

Hannibal Lecter: "Taste is not only biochemical, it’s also psychological, evoking memories of places and experiences."

Abigail Hobbs: "Eggs and sausage was the last meal I was having with my parents."

Hannibal Lecter: "I know. It’s also the first meal you’re having with me."

INT. B.A.U. - EXAMINATION ROOM - NIGHT

Will, Beverly and Alana sit at a conference table with many discarded file folders of missing or abducted kids. There are fourteen pictures arrayed in view, a range of faces.

Alana Bloom: "If we’re looking for our next Trilby, are we assuming C.J. Lincoln is in the Svengali role?"

Beverly Katz: "Sounds like me at fourteen."

Alana Bloom: "Without the interference of a leader, these kids would never consider violent action."

Beverly Katz: "A fuse yet to be lit."

Alana Bloom: "A buried darkness. An inkspot on their soul. It takes a catalyst to bring that to the surface."

The conversation makes Will uncomfortable. He paces the table, studying in turn the fourteen pictures.

Will Graham: "Our Trilby’s a boy, a paradox in the midst of a normal family, an outsider who doesn’t look like one. He’d be good at a vocation, something inventive or mechanical."

Will leafs through files, discarding ones that don’t fit.

Alana Bloom: "Would’ve been a perfect candidate."

Will Graham: "I would have. He’d have hobbies that require hand-eye coordination, that are off the beaten path... that link up to what his father does for a living. Something that consumes him so as to keep him engaged."

Beverly Katz: "The devil makes work for idle hands kind of thing."

She’s skimming the files, tossing ones aside. Beverly Katz holds up a photo; it’s the urinating boy Chris.

Beverly Katz: "Here’s one. Family moved from Biloxi, to Charleston to Fayetteville in the last three years. He won Junior High award for his work on pretty sophisticated computer circuitry."

Will Graham: "Chris O'Halloran."

Alana Bloom: "Why do you think these kids are susceptible to C.J. Lincoln?"

Will Graham: "Because he may have a brother, but their ages or interests set them apart. A brother without a brother."

Alana Bloom: "Brothers looking for a mother."

The simplicity of that strikes Will like a bullet.

INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORD’S OFFICE - NIGHT

As Will enters, Jack looks up from his computer.

Will Graham: "It’s not just C.J. Lincoln. There’s an adult with some formative sway. It’s a woman. A mother figure. She’s looking to form a family."

Jack Crawford: "Family can have a contagion effect on the alienated. You adopt the same attitudes, the same behaviors."

Will Graham: "I never got bit by that bug."

Jack Crawford: "I managed to avoid it myself."

Will Graham: "Whoever this woman is, she wants these children to... burst with love for her. And she needs to erase their families to do that."

Jack Crawford: "She abducts them, convinces them no one can love them like she does. Then makes absolutely sure of it."

Will hands Jack the file on Chris O’Halloran.

Will Graham: "Security camera from a convenience store in Alexandria, Virginia captured surveillance footage of Chris O’Halloran this morning. He was with an unidentified woman."

Jack Crawford: "Where’s this kid’s family?"

Will Graham: "Fayetteville, North Carolina."

EXT. O’HALLORAN HOME - NIGHT (FAYETTEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA)

Chris O'Halloran stands alone on the doorstep of his family’s home. We hear footsteps approaching to answer the door.

The front door opens and Chris’s mother, Marcy O’Halloran, gasps to find her missing son suddenly returned to her.

Marcy: "Christopher? Oh my god, Chris!"

She throws her arms around the boy. A moment of true joy and elation. But when she looks in Chris’s eyes she sees something that frightens her. His eyes are dead.

C.J. Lincoln steps out of the darkness, handing him a gun.

C.J. Lincoln: "Your turn, Chris."

EXT. O’HALLORAN HOME - NIGHT (FAYETTEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA)

An elegant, A-frame house oozing with lazy, Magnolia-scented Carolina charm. A florist delivery van quietly pulls up in front of the A-Frame. Jack Crawford emerges from the sliding side doors as F.B.I. agents and armed SWAT members swarm toward the house.

INT. O'HALLORAN HOME - MOMENTS LATER

A SWAT guy with an air-ram blasts open the door. Jack leads our team behind the front guard of SWAT. They move through the house, following the SWAT team, followed by Will, Zeller, Price and Katz, guns drawn and at the low ready. They sweep through the house, splitting off to cover various rooms, balletic in movement.

Jack cautiously brings up the rear. Weapon at the ready, he carefully steps toward the back of the house. Through the window, he sees the backyard, where the O'Hallorans were in the process of a barbecue lunch. But something’s gone wrong.

Jack Crawford: "F.B.I., Drop the weapon!"

He motions Will and the others forward.

EXT. O’HALLORAN HOME - BACKYARD - NIGHT

A barbecue tableaux played all over America every weekend of the year. Weber grill. A-One steak sauce. Burgers and dogs cooking red hot. The Lost Boys (C.J. Lincoln, Jesse Turner, and Chris O'Halloran, along with two other boys) are formed in a semi-circle around the terrified O'Halloran parents (Dad, Mom, a boy and a girl). C.J. holds a gun to the O’Halloran Father.

Jack Crawford bursts into the yard. SWAT is there in various positions. Will, Zeller, Price and Katz bring up the rear.

C.J. tenses his finger on the trigger to fire at Mr. O'Halloran. BLAM! In a split second miscalculation, C.J. misses his dead-to-rights shot of the back of Mr. O’Halloran’s head and instead takes off a portion of his ear.

A second shot rings out and C.J. is hit in the head. He face-plants on the grill, cheek seared at 400 degrees.

Chris O’Halloran bolts. A SWAT member raises his gun, but Will takes off after the young boy.

Will Graham: "I got him."

C.J. is sprawled dead, everyone else frozen in shock. Zeller pulls C.J. off the grill, his body slumping to the ground. Mr. O'Halloran clutches his bloody ear, alive. SWAT members cuff Jesse Turner and the other boys.

Will sprints in pursuit along with several other SWAT guys into the deep back yard. EMTs rush to Mr. O'Halloran.

The SWAT team cuff and remove Jesse Turner and the two other young boys. Jack moves to the O'Halloran children (ages 8 and 12). His manner with them is gentle.

Jack Crawford: "I’m Jack Crawford. I’m with the F.B.I. We’re here to help you. You guys okay?"

They nod. Zeller and Price move quickly to help Mr. O’Halloran and guide him and his wife inside.

Jack speaks gently to the O’Halloran children.

Jack Crawford: "Your Dad’s going to be alright. So are you. Give me your hands. I’m going to take you inside."

His calmness works. The daughter (8) reaches out to clasp his outstretched hand. Jack looks at her with compassion.

EXT. O’HALLORAN HOUSE - GAZEBO - SAME TIME

Chris O'Halloran is running for his life.

Will Graham: "Chris, stop."

Chris pulls up short. He turns around. And we see that in his hand is a gun.

Will and several SWAT guys take positions ten yards away from Chris.

Will Graham: "Don’t shoot. You don’t have to worry about C.J. anymore. It’s okay. You’re home now. Put down the gun, Christopher."

Chris shuffles on his feet, eyes welling. And this is when Will has a realization.

Eva: "Shoot him, Christopher."

Another figure emerges from the shadows. It’s Eva. She too has a gun in her hand, but it’s at the back of Christopher’s spine.

Eva: "Shoot him for me. Drop your gun. For my boy."

Will Graham: "You’re his new mother."

Eva: "I am. And I love him, but I will do what I have to do for my family."

Will Graham: "You abducted these boys. Your “son” C.J. killed your other “son” Connor. You burned his remains to honor him as his mother."

She studies Will, how dare he question her motherhood.

Eva: "I’m honoring them like their other mothers wouldn’t. They’re not invisible anymore. I can see them. I see who they are and love them."

Will Graham: "Be Christopher’s mother now. Protect him. Don’t murder him."

Eva: "The most loving mothers commit murder with smiles on their faces. They force us to destroy the person we are. A subtle kind of murder."

Will lets the gun fall to the ground.

Eva: "Shoot him, Christopher. Like I showed you."

Chris’s traumatized glance pierces Will’s heart.

Will Graham: "Christopher, please."

She raises her gun. BLAM!

The shot is so immediate and unexpected that Will checks his stomach to see where the bullet hit. It takes a moment for Will to realize he hasn’t been hit at all.

Eva spins, her shoulder erupting in a cloud of arterial spray as she is hit. Chris’s arm goes limp at his side.

Beverly Katz stands with gun outstretched, smoke issuing from the barrel. Will kneels in front of Chris, gently taking the gun from his hand. Will watches as Beverly moves in and almost motherly guides Chris away. Will crosses to fallen Eva on the ground; she takes sharp breaths, tensing through the pain. As the SWAT team surrounds her, Will stares down at her. Condemnation at what she’s done to these boys...

INT. F.B.I. TACTICAL VAN - NIGHT

Chris O’Halloran sits on a bench, alone. After a moment, the back doors open, blasting daylight and silhouetting Jack Crawford as he enters. He sits opposite the small boy, who does not look up at the imposing man studying him.

Chris O’Halloran: "Can I go home now?"

Jack Crawford: "No. You might not get to go home for a long time... You came here to kill your family. That’s all anybody knows. That’s all anyone may ever believe."

Chris O’Halloran: "I wasn’t going to do it."

Jack Crawford: "You’re going to talk to a lot of people who will try to understand exactly what you were going to do."

Chris O’Halloran: "Am I going to jail?"

Jack Crawford: "I don’t think you have the capacity to plan and execute murder. The civilized thing to do with you would be counseling and rehabilitation, not prison."

Chris O’Halloran: "She told me they weren’t my family. That we had to make our own family. Do you have a family?"

Jack Crawford: "I don’t have children, no."

Chris O’Halloran: "Then you don’t know what it’s like."

Jack Crawford: "I wish to god you hadn’t gone with that woman, but you did. All of that can’t just suddenly be undone. But in time, if you trust me, we can start undoing what we can."

Chris O’Halloran: "Can I talk to my mom? My real mom?"

Jack Crawford: "In a little while, but right now I need you to talk to me."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - FOYER - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter holds the door open as Alana Bloom enters, annoyed with him and searching for the words to express it.

Alana Bloom: "As someone who makes such a big deal about common courtesy, I’m a little taken aback, slash a lot taken aback, that you would check my patient, my patient, out of the hospital without permission. I’m not a professional scold. Don’t put me in this position ever again."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m sorry."

Alana Bloom: "Rude, Hannibal. Shockingly rude."

Hannibal Lecter: "You have every right to be upset with me. I overstepped my bounds."

Alana Bloom: "Where is she?"

Hannibal Lecter: "She’s in the dining room."

Alana Bloom moves toward the dining room, but Hannibal Lecter puts a gentle hand on her shoulder to slow her down.

Hannibal Lecter: "Alana, you were right."

Alana Bloom: "Often am. Have to be more specific."

Hannibal Lecter: "She wasn’t ready to leave the hospital. She experienced a bit of an anxiety so I gave her a sedative."

Alana Bloom: "A sedative?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Half a valium. She may be a little hazy."

INT. HANNIBAL’S HOME - DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Hannibal Lecter and Alana Bloom enter to find Abigail Hobbs sitting at the table with food and teacup in front of her.

Abigail Hobbs: "Hi, Doctor Bloom."

Alana Bloom: "You were expecting me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "In the interest of honesty, we were expecting Will Graham. But my phone calls went unreturned. Please. Sit down."

Alana Bloom does as instructed.

Abigail Hobbs: "Are you hungry? Hannibal made breakfast for dinner."

Alana Bloom: "I could eat."

Hannibal Lecter notices Abigail smiling at him and Alana.

Hannibal Lecter: "What is it? What do you see?"

From Abigail’s perspective, Alana Bloom and Hannibal Lecter blur and lose focus before slowly regaining it. As they become clear again, we realize they are now Louise and Garret Jacob Hobbs.

Abigail Hobbs: "I see family."

Hannibal Lecter smiles at Alana Bloom, who is more thoughtful, unsure how to feel about Abigail’s admission.

INT. JACK CRAWFORD’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jack Crawford lies in bed by himself, reading. After a moment, his wife, Bella Crawford, beautiful in her late 40s, enters.

Jack Crawford: "Hello."

Bella Crawford: "Hello."

He watches silently as she disrobes and crawls into bed.

Jack Crawford: "Is it too late for us to have kids?"

Bella Crawford pauses briefly and considers the question before curling onto her side, back to Jack.

Bella Crawford: "It is for me."

She shuts off the light on her night stand leaving Jack and his side of the bed half in light, half in dark. After a moment, Jack turns off his own light.

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM/BEDROOM - NIGHT

Will Graham lays in his bed watching as the last of his dogs finally settle and go to sleep, his own children happy in their beds. He smiles and closes his eyes.