In blackness, after a moment, a single wisp of smoke rises.

Chiyoh: "On still evenings, when the air was damp after a rain, we played a game."

Train tracks weave in a blur as the wood ties strobe past. Train cars flash by, glimpses of windows, all a blur. Through the rapidly-passing windows, flickers of passengers appear intermittently, almost like a zoetrope, until one window comes into focus. Inside are Will Graham and Chiyoh bathed in the light of dusk.

INT. TRAIN - WILL GRAHAM'S SLEEPER CABIN - DUSK

They sit opposite one another in a sleeper cabin -- two chairs beside the window with a table, bunk beds and a small bathroom. Old wood. A taste of a Europe from days gone by. The train's rattle and clack is a constant background.

Chiyoh: "Hannibal would burn all kinds of barks and incense for me to identify by scent alone. He was charming the way a cub is charming, a small cub that grows up to be like one of the big cats."

Will Graham: "One you can't play with later."

Chiyoh: "The day I met Hannibal, he was an orphan. I was meant to meet him with his sister, but he was alone."

Will Graham: "How did you meet him?"

Chiyoh: "I was his aunt's attendant. My parents sent me to learn from Lady Murasaki when I was just a girl. I learned from Hannibal, too. He had all the wisdom in miniature."

Will Graham: "He comes in the guise of a mentor, but it's distress that excites him."

Chiyoh: "I'm not in distress."

Will Graham: "Not anymore. You had a strict rule about taking life and you broke it. Is it on your mind? Do you see killing him over and over?"

Chiyoh: "No. I see you. How do you know Hannibal's in Florence?"

Will Graham: "Botticelli."

Will hands her an Uffizi Gallery postcard of the Primavera.

Chiyoh: "When we find him, I will have steady hands and a slow heart. Will you?"

Will offers a faint smile, glances out the window. She stares at him a moment, then glances outside herself.

Chiyoh: "I've never been to Italy. I never expected to. Birds eat thousands of snails every day. Some of those snails survive digestion and emerge to find they've traveled the world."

Will Graham: "In the belly of the beast."

Chiyoh stares at Will, then her attention drifts back to the window and the passing landscape. The view pushes through the window, and the landscape is revealed to be snails moving along leaves. An indistinct shape is attached to the green leaves the snails are eating. Something is moving beyond a membrane. The shape is alien and unnerving. The membrane splits and the creature within emerges. A brutal, biting head and a long body -- horrific.

A firefly larva, one of many, bursts forth from a cluster of eggs clinging beneath a leaf. The larvae immediately disperse amid the leaves.

INT. CASTLE LECTER - BASEMENT - NIGHT

Snails move among the leaves wrapped around a caged man, still suspended in the basement. The larvae attack the snails, biting and dragging them from their shells. Eating the soft flesh within. All across the caged man's body, this attack is being repeated...

Hannibal Lecter: "Firefly larvae devour many times their own body weight in snails."

In macro shots, the larvae still devour the snails, but pupae now dot the leaves. As we watch, adult fireflies emerge from them and spread their new, wet wings, pausing to rest.

Hannibal Lecter: "Fuel to power a transformation into a delicate creature of such beauty."

INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Bedelia Du Maurier is dressed in a beautiful silk robe, looking into the night.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "To the misfortune of the snail."

Hannibal Lecter approaches in nothing but pajama bottoms, carrying two glasses of whiskey. He offers her one.

Hannibal Lecter: "Snails follow their nature as surely as those that eat them."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Fireflies live very brief lives."

Hannibal Lecter: "Better to live true to yourself for an instant than never know it."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Fireflies don't question their nature. Not like Will Graham does."

Hannibal Lecter: "An insect lacks morality to agonize over. Will agonizes about inevitable change. His morality is reasoned from abstract principles, but his judgment comes instantly. Or rather, it used to."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Almost anything can be trained to resist its instinct. A shepherd dog does not savage the sheep."

Hannibal Lecter: "But it wants to. Will has reached a state of moral dumbfounding."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Morality can be summed up in one rule: 'Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.'"

Hannibal Lecter: "Empathy and reciprocity."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Reciprocity. If we keep track of incoming and outgoing intentions, Will Graham is en route to kill you while you lie in wait to kill him. Now that's reciprocity."

INT. CASTLE LECTER - BASEMENT - NIGHT

The fireflies take flight around the caged man and, slowly, each one begins to emit light. The room gradually fills with a beautiful thousand points of light.

EXT. PONTE SANTA TRINITÀ - EARLY MORNING

The arch of the bridge is still quiet as Jack Crawford moves across the span. The splendor of ancient Florence surrounds him. The calm waters of the Arno reflect the gaily-yellow buildings crowding either bank.

Jack walks to the center of the bridge, the Arno River stretching in either direction. The Ponte Vecchio is downriver from him. He carries an urn, and he rests it on the edge of the bridge. He watches sunlight dance on the water. A wistful smile.

And then Jack lifts the lid from the urn, dips in a hand and lifts out Bella's ashes. Some escape on the light breeze. He leans out and drops them into the water, watching as they dapple the surface and disappear. Another handful. And then another. And then he tips the urn and the ashes fall in a sudden rush to the water below.

He ponders his hand stained with her ashes, then removes his wedding ring and tosses it into the river. The wedding ring drifts away, into dark waters.

Jack Crawford is now lit by the glow of candles and warm lighting.

INT. PAZZI'S APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Jack sits at a table with Inspector Pazzi and his beautiful wife, Allegra, in the midst of setting the table. She notices Jack's ring finger and the depression above his knuckle.

Allegra Pazzi: "You've recently stopped wearing your wedding ring."

Jack Crawford: "You've just started wearing yours."

Inspector Pazzi: "I have a young and lovely wife. Her efforts have ground twelve pounds off my frame."

Allegra Pazzi: "La Vita Nuova."

She kisses Pazzi and pours wine.

Allegra Pazzi: "Divorced?"

Jack Crawford: "Widowed. I met her in Italy. It's strange being here without her."

Allegra Pazzi: "What was her name?"

Jack Crawford: "Bella."

Allegra Pazzi: "To Bella. Cin-cin."

They drink and Allegra moves back to the kitchen. Pazzi glances at his wife through the door.

Inspector Pazzi: "I look at her and I think about all the things I want to give her..."

Jack Crawford: "How you want to appear in her eyes."

Inspector Pazzi: "Certainly not in my present role at the Questura. I perform menial errands found for me by my former subordinates. Interviews in missing-person cases. They've enjoyed my fall from grace."

Jack considers that and realizes.

Jack Crawford: "You weren't in Palermo on official police business."

Pazzi blinks, caught.

Inspector Pazzi: "Neither were you."

Jack Crawford: "Are your subordinates at the Questura aware that you're investigating Hannibal Lecter?"

Inspector Pazzi: "Questura headquarters is located in a former mental hospital. Madness still lives there. I'll tell them when I know it's Lecter that I'm investigating."

Jack Crawford: "You already know."

Inspector Pazzi: "I need to be certain. I am disgraced and out of fortune. I have been waiting for the whisper of the ax for far too long."

Jack Crawford: "It's inclined you toward a dangerous game outside the law. I've played that game. I lost."

Allegra enters with a bowl of beautiful pasta.

Inspector Pazzi: "How do you behave when you know the conventional honors have no value? Is it possible to behave well then? Desirable to behave well then?"

Allegra eyes her husband as she takes a seat at the table.

Allegra Pazzi: "Let's eat."

A fine damask tablecloth is spread over an antique dining table. A small, elegantly-wrapped package is placed on the tablecloth by Alana Bloom.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MASON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The package is one of many on the table. It nestles amid fine bottles of wine and rich delicacies from the finest provenders of Europe. This table of epicurean delights has been set in the murky dissonance of Mason's room. A reflection appears in a glass case -- the ruined face of Mason Verger.

Mason Verger: "I have people for this sort of thing, Dr. Bloom. Feeding and watering are out of your purview."

Alana Bloom: "It's a table setting from the home of Dr. Hannibal Lecter."

Mason sucks at the saliva collecting between teeth and cheek.

Alana Bloom: "The silverware is 19th-century Dutch from Christofle. The plate is Gien French china from Tiffany. The table linen is damask cotton, also from Christofle."

Mason Verger: "You’ve got to hand it to the man. He has the most marvelous taste."

INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - DAY

An identical place setting, but the plate bears a rich dish. Hands cut a morsel and raise it to the mouth of Hannibal Lecter. He chews, savors, smiles.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MASON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Alana and Mason.

Alana Bloom: "Hannibal very much likes to shop. I've discovered a pattern of purchases. An echo of the life Hannibal lived in Baltimore."

Mason Verger: "He likes music, he likes wine, he likes food and he likes you. How did you taste? Sweet, I bet. I'm sure you got a taste of him, too. Spitters are quitters, and you don't strike me as a quitter, Dr. Bloom."

She ignores him and tugs at the ribbon of a package. It springs open like a flower blooming.

Alana Bloom: "The first step in the development of taste is to be willing to credit your own opinion. But in areas of food and wine, I have to follow Hannibal's precedents."

Inside, a single Anatolian fig sits in a bed of tissue paper. She places it next to another package containing a cluster of Tartuffi Bianchi truffles.

Hands carefully wrap figs and truffles, and two bottles of Bâtard-Montrachet.

INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY

Bedelia Du Maurier moves to the counter. The clerk hands her the order. She collects the bag of wine, figs and truffles with a smile. She pays cash.

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MASON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Alana and Mason, as before.

Alana Bloom: "Things in a small market might be the monster's dorsal fin, cutting the surface and making him visible."

Alana produces a single receipt from a stack.

Alana Bloom: "A receipt from a Florentine fine grocer, Vera dal 1926, for two bottles of Bâtard-Montrachet and some tartuffi bianchi. And another. And another. And another. Once a week, for the last three months, a blonde woman makes the exact same purchase. And she always pays cash. She's shopping for Hannibal."

Mason looks pleased.

INT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - MAIN CONCOURSE - DAY

From a distance, Jack Crawford and Inspector Pazzi move across the main station concourse of Firenze SMN. They are met at a door, marked "Private," by a young security officer. Pazzi flashes his badge and introduces Jack. Jack shakes the security officer's hand.

INT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - SECURITY OFFICE - DAY

Crawford and Pazzi now stand in the station’s security office. Inside, low light. Multiple screens, rerunning the last 48 hours of CCTV footage, above a desk manned by the security officer. Over the footage, we see a series of graphic boxes that flash over faces in the crowd.

Inspector Pazzi: "If Will Graham comes to Florence, he will be coming through here."

EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY

Bedelia moves gracefully through the streets of Florence. This time, there is a more disturbing air to her journey. The elegant footage is jarringly interrupted by harsh, monochrome CCTV captures of Du Maurier. An unseen voyeur.

INT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - SECURITY OFFICE - DAY

Jack, Inspector Pazzi and the security officer scan through the CCTV playback. Crowds disembark from the trains and re-embark in reverse as he fast-forwards and rewinds through the footage. Jack swallows. His eyes are tired. He is about to give in when he notices something at the edge of one of the live-feed monitors. A woman is approaching a bench in the station.

Jack Crawford: "Aspetta. Proprio lí."

EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - PLATFORM - DAY

Bedelia sits on her usual bench on one of the platforms, her shopping beside her. She looks up at the security camera, as she always does. The image crackles to CCTV footage. Her pixelated face becomes almost skull-like.

INT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - SECURITY OFFICE - DAY

Crawford stares at Bedelia's empty face. She stares back.

Jack Crawford: "Non lasciarla fuori dalla tua vista."

Jack quickly rushes out of the room, followed by Pazzi. Off Bedelia's harshly-pixelated face.

EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - PLATFORM - DAY

Bedelia stares absently at the CCTV camera until she is distracted by a commotion. She glances over to see Jack Crawford and Inspector Pazzi approaching through the crowd. Jack spies her through the crowd. His view is momentarily obstructed and she is gone.

He arrives at Bedelia's usual bench and finds it empty; the shopping bag from Vera dal 1926 is all that remains.

EXT. EUROPEAN COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT

A beautiful bucolic setting under a serene, starry night. A moment, then a train cuts through the frame.

For a moment, it appears as though Will Graham is lying on his back beneath the starry night, until the view clarifies.

INT. TRAIN - WILL GRAHAM'S SLEEPER CABIN - NIGHT

He is lying in his bed, staring into middle distance. The lights are dim as they ready to sleep. The water closet door slides open revealing Chiyoh in a robe. She quietly enters and crosses to her bed, climbing inside without a word. She stares into middle distance just as Will had been doing. A long moment of silence.

Will Graham: "Do you want me to talk so you don't have to? Or would you rather I not talk at all? Can talk or not talk."

Chiyoh: "Are we obligated to talk?"

Will Graham: "No."

Chiyoh: "Strange to talk so much. Not used to hearing voices outside my head."

Will Graham: "I hear voices from all directions."

Chiyoh: "I become aware of words no one is saying. Words that spoke to me in the gnawing sameness of my days."

Will Graham: "In the gnawing sameness of your days, did you look at the shape of things? At what you were becoming?"

Chiyoh: "I wasn't becoming anything. I was standing still. Exactly where he left me standing. Like taxidermy."

Will Graham: "Hollowed out and filled with something else."

Chiyoh: "Not something else. I'm not as malleable as you are. You have a taste for it now."

Will Graham: "A taste for what?"

Chiyoh: "Harm."

Will Graham: "Do you?"

Chiyoh: "I was violent when it was the right thing to do, when I was obliged to do it. But I think you like it."

Will Graham: "Violence can be a powerful means to regulate someone's behavior."

Chiyoh: "Are you regulating Hannibal's behavior or is he regulating yours?"

Will Graham: "We afforded each other an experience we may not otherwise have had."

Chiyoh: "You've afforded me an experience I would not otherwise have had. If you don't kill him, you're afraid you're going to become him."

Will Graham: "Yes."

Chiyoh: "There are means of influence other than violence."

EXT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - DAY

The view moves beyond the crowds in the street below and up toward the high windows.

INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - ATROCIOUS TORTURE EXHIBIT - DAY

Chiaroscuro light. Display cases containing the tools with which to inflict savagery on the human body. Various workers, dressed in coveralls, unpack torture instruments from crates. Inspector Pazzi crosses toward a silhouetted figure overlooking the exhibit.

Inspector Pazzi: "Dr. Fell?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Yes."

Inspector Pazzi: "I am Inspector Pazzi of the Questura di Firenze."

As Hannibal Lecter turns, his face is illuminated in a fine shaft of sunlight. White curator's gloves on his hands. Pazzi almost staggers. It's been twenty years since he last saw his prime suspect for the il Mostro case, and here he is. Hannibal Lecter's eyes betray no recognition.

Inspector Pazzi: "I was wondering if you ever met your predecessor?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Never met him. Read several of his monographs in the Nuova Antologia."

Inspector Pazzi: "I know the officers who first investigated checked the Palazzo for any sort of note -- farewell note, suicide note -- found nothing."

Hannibal Lecter: "The going assumption is, he eloped with a woman and her money."

Inspector Pazzi: "What is the going assumption regarding Professor Sogliato?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Still no word?"

Inspector Pazzi: "You may have had the last word with Sogliato. Your colleague... Signor Albizzi, tells me no one has spoken to Professor Sogliato since he declined your invitation to dinner. He is the second to have disappeared from the Palazzo."

Pazzi is keenly aware of the workers in the background, giving him some semblance of safety with il Mostro.

Hannibal Lecter: "Like any good investigator, I'm sure you're sifting the circumstances for profit."

Pazzi's wheels spin as he surreptitiously studies Hannibal Lecter.

Inspector Pazzi: "Both were bachelors, well-respected scholars with orderly lives. They had some savings, nothing much."

Hannibal Lecter reacts, recognizing something in Pazzi.

Hannibal Lecter: "Commendator Pazzi?"

Inspector Pazzi: "Yes."

Hannibal Lecter: "I think you are a Pazzi of the Pazzi, am I correct?"

Inspector Pazzi: "How did you know that?"

Hannibal Lecter: "You resemble a figure from the Della Robbia rondels in your family's chapel at Santa Croce."

Inspector Pazzi: "Ah, that was Andrea de' Pazzi depicted as John the Baptist."

Hannibal Lecter: "Then there's the most-famous Pazzi of all: Francesco. He attempted to assassinate Lorenzo the Magnificent in the cathedral, at Mass, in 1478."

Inspector Pazzi: "Yes, the Pazzi family were all brought low on that Sunday. If you come upon anything, Dr. Fell, anything personal from the missing men, would you call me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Of course, Commendator Pazzi."

He nods to Hannibal Lecter and then walks away, plucking a brochure on The Exhibition of Atrocious Torture Instruments as he exits. Hannibal remains still, watching him go.

As he watches Pazzi, the image of Hannibal Lecter pixelates as though it is on a computer monitor. The image is now on an Italian "WANTED" ad on a website. Hannibal's height, weight and various physical details are described. The "wanted" ad is reflected on Pazzi's reading glasses as he stares at the monitor with Hannibal Lecter's face.

EXT. FLORENCE - PAY PHONE - DAY

Pazzi opens a prepaid calling card and carefully punches in the numbers before he gets a dial tone. Behind him, stone archways and tourists. He glares at the card. A man with a decision to make. Almost angry with himself, he consults a number on a piece of paper and dials. It rings. And then a well-spoken Swiss accent answers. A lawyer.

Lawyer: "State your business, please."

Pazzi hesitates, then speaks.

Inspector Pazzi: "I may have information about Hannibal Lecter."

Lawyer: "Do you know where he is now?"

Inspector Pazzi: "I believe so. Is the reward in effect?"

Lawyer: "Why haven't you called the police? I'm required to encourage you to do that."

Inspector Pazzi: "Is the reward payable in... special circumstances? To someone not ordinarily eligible?"

Lawyer: "Do you mean a bounty on Dr. Lecter?"

Inspector Pazzi: "Yes..."

Lawyer: "It is against international convention to offer a bounty for someone's death, sir. Are you calling from Europe?"

Inspector Pazzi: "Yes. That's all I'm telling you."

Lawyer: "I suggest you contact an attorney to discuss the legality of bounties. May I recommend one? There is one in Geneva, I encourage you strongly to call him and be frank about the matter. Would you like the number, sir? Sir?"

Inspector Pazzi: "Yes. Give me the number."

Pazzi grabs a pencil and paper, leans it against the wall and scratches down a number. He then puts down the phone. He looks at the number in his hand. A line crossed.

Hannibal Lecter's fingers tickle the ivories as he plays Mozart's "Sonata in B-flat major." A pencil leaves graphite debris in its wake as it draws a sketch of Botticelli's Primavera. The hammer and strings of the piano rise and fall. Present-day Hannibal Lecter, wiser, seasoned, handsomely lined, glances down at the keys as he plays. A younger Hannibal Lecter, clearer, smoother, glances down at his drawing as he sketches in front of Botticelli's Primavera. He is about to turn.

Present-day Hannibal Lecter glances behind him. The approaching view belongs to Bedelia Du Maurier.

INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter sits at the piano, continuing to play, as Bedelia Du Maurier approaches.

Hannibal Lecter: "I prefer the sound and feel of the harpsichord. More alive because it is not possible to control the volume of the quill-plucked strings, the music arrives like experience, sudden and entire. The piano has the quality of a memory. Today has the quality of a memory."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "You've met Commendator Pazzi before."

Hannibal Lecter: "In my youth... We shared a fondness for Botticelli and crossed paths in the Uffizi Gallery, beneath the Primavera."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Does he know... what you are?"

Hannibal Lecter smiles at her choice of words, continues to play.

Hannibal Lecter: "When I looked into his face and stood close enough to smell him, I was well aware that all the elements of epiphany were present."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Yet here you are, free to tell me all about it."

Hannibal Lecter: "He must wait, and lurk and think. It's too soon to flush his quarry. He's deciding what to do."

Bedelia sits, studying him.

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Someone's put a price on your head."

Hannibal Lecter: "As an early-warning system, a bounty is better than radar. It inclines authorities everywhere to forsake their duty and scramble after me privately."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Should Rinaldo Pazzi join Professor Sogliato and the late curator of the Palazzo down in the damp? Should his body be found after an apparent suicide?"

Hannibal Lecter: "No. Rinaldo Pazzi, a Pazzi of the Pazzi, chief inspector of the Florentine Questura, has to decide what his honor is worth, or if there is a wisdom longer than considerations of honor."

Bedelia Du Maurier: "Avarice is not uncommon in Italy. What is it worth to be known as the man who caught Hannibal Lecter?"

Hannibal Lecter: "For a policeman, credit has a short half-life. Better to sell me."

He plays his final notes as a punctuation.

Will Graham sleeps quietly.

INT. TRAIN - WILL GRAHAM'S SLEEPER CABIN - NIGHT

As he sleeps, a single drop of blood lands on his forehead. He opens his eyes, staring upward to see Chiyoh suspended above him, penetrated many times over in a bramble of antlers rising out of him mythologically.

Will opens his eyes in the quiet rocking of the cabin. He slowly becomes aware there is no other sound in the room beyond his own breathing. He glances into Chiyoh's bunk and sees that it is empty.

INT. TRAIN - CABOOSE PASSAGEWAY - NIGHT

The darkened corridor is silent. At the door to the rear platform, a silhouette is framed against the night outside. Will moves smoothly along the passageway, in slippers, a coat covering his nightwear.

INT. TRAIN - CABOOSE REAR PLATFORM - NIGHT

Chiyoh stands alone, braced against the railing, staring out into the darkness unfurling behind the train. Will watches Chiyoh from inside the caboose a moment, then joins her. The wind whips at them both.

Chiyoh: "I like the night. It's more than a period of time; it's another place. It's different from where we are during the day."

Will Graham: "We're different from who we are during the day. Little more hidden, little less seen."

Chiyoh: "When life is most like a dream."

Will stares at her a moment, studying her.

Will Graham: "Why are you searching for him? What are you hoping to find?"

Chiyoh: "I'm not searching for Hannibal. I know exactly where he is."

Will Graham: "Is he in Florence?"

Chiyoh: "Yes."

Will Graham: "Why didn't you tell me you knew?"

Chiyoh: "I told you there are means of influence other than violence."

She kisses Will tenderly on the lips, taking his breath away.

Chiyoh: "But violence is what you understand."

And with that, Chiyoh shoves Will violently over the railing, sending him ass over teakettle into the night. Chiyoh takes a deep breath and lets it go, and she begins to recede as the train pulls her into darkness.

Will Graham falls in a spinning, dizzying stylized shot, his face super close as he bounces and rag-dolls through space and lands.

EXT. TRAIN TRACKS - NIGHT

Face down. The blur of the rest of the train clatters past above him. The noise is huge. And then it is gone. Will lies silent amid the now-empty woods, train tracks running away from him to infinity.

And then he is nudged by something sharp and black. It is the antlers of the black stag. It nudges Will like a dog would its injured master. Slowly, Will rouses, comes around. Battered and bruised, but alive. Will drags himself to his feet, looks up the tracks and sees the stag waiting patiently. And then it starts to walk in the direction of the train, and Will obediently follows.

INT. VAULT ROOM - DAY

A severe, plain little room, no windows. Two tables. One with blocks of hundred-dollar bills. On the other: a monitor, webcam and a microphone. Pazzi stares at the million dollars.

The monitor blinks to life and Mason Verger's face appears, haloed by a light, darkness beyond. His peculiar plosive breathing comes through the speakers.

Mason Verger: "Hello, Rinaldo!"

Inspector Pazzi: "Hello."

INT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - MAIN ROOM - DAY

Mason Verger stares into the camera. Alana Bloom is off to one side.

Mason Verger: "Thank you so much for reaching out. Without the cooperation of concerned citizens such as yourself, monsters like Hannibal Lecter would run wild, unabated."

Inspector Pazzi: "Shall we?"

Mason glances at Alana -- what he is about to say is as much to gauge her reaction as it is for Pazzi's edification.

Mason Verger: "Let's. I will pay one-million United States Dollars for Dr. Lecter's head and hands. I will pay the same amount for information leading to arrest and conviction."

Alana's face has gone still as not to betray her discomfort.

Mason Verger: "I will privately pay three-million dollars for the doctor alive, no questions asked, discretion guaranteed. Those terms include a one-hundred-thousand dollar advance. To qualify for the advance, you must provide a positively-identifiable fingerprint from Dr. Lecter. Capito?"

Inspector Pazzi: "Yes, I understand."

Mason Verger: "I require a fresh fingerprint in situ and unlifted, on an object for my experts to examine independently. You don't want to alarm the doctor. He could disappear too well and..."

Inspector Pazzi: "I would be left with nothing."

Mason Verger: "Sì."

Alana steps around the side of the monitor to be in full view of Pazzi on the other side of the connection.

Alana Bloom: "So you have no illusions about what's going to happen to Dr. Lecter, you would be selling him into torture and death."

Inspector Pazzi: "I'm aware."

Mason Verger: "His happiness is worth more than the monster's life. You get the rest of the money when Dr. Lecter is alive in our hands."

Inspector Pazzi: "I don't want Dr. Lecter in my... I don't want him near Florence when you..."

Mason Verger: "I understand your concern. Don't worry, he won't be."

From Pazzi's perspective, the line goes dead. Alana and Mason regard each other quietly a moment.

Alana Bloom: "Hannibal is going to kill him, you know."

Mason shrugs. The twinkle in his eye suggests a smile.

EXT. FLORENCE - DUSK

The steady sounds of restoration pound and bang until a record needle drops. A thin sliver of light dances across the dark grooves of a record spinning on an old player. Strauss's "The Blue Danube" waltz echoes across the hall.

INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - ATROCIOUS TORTURE EXHIBIT - DUSK

Strauss does his best to provide a relaxing blanket of sound over the cacophony of restorers working in the background. Pazzi enters with a wood case under his arm. There's no sign of Hannibal Lecter as he glances around the room, nodding to the restorers who stare back at him, absent of any friendly demeanor.

A cloth rests on a display case in the middle of the room. On it -- a small picnic. A glass of wine, some good cheese, a beautiful pear with a single bite taken out of it.

Hannibal Lecter: "Buonasera, commendatore."

Pazzi looks up. Hannibal Lecter is standing perfectly still on the other side of the room. Was he there all this time?

Inspector Pazzi: "Buonasera, Dottor Fell."

Hannibal Lecter: "Back so soon?"

Pazzi sets his wooden case on top of Hannibal Lecter's desk as Hannibal Lecter approaches, carving another bite mark out of the pear in slices and eating them. He watches Pazzi's face.

Inspector Pazzi: "Given the nature of your exhibition and the content of our last conversation, I brought something I thought you might like to see."

Pazzi opens the case. Inside there is a scold's bridle -- a Renaissance torture device that resembles an ornate-but-grotesque metal mask fitted with a wicked, barbed mouth bit.

Inspector Pazzi: "It was supposedly worn by Francesco de' Pazzi when he met his end. My family's guilt cast in iron."

Hannibal Lecter: "A scold's bridle. May I?"

Pazzi watches closely as Hannibal Lecter goes to pick up the mask. His fingers will leave prints all over the burnished metal.

Inspector Pazzi: "Of course."

Hannibal Lecter sets his knife down and produces soft curator's gloves, slipping them on and taking the bridle from its case.

Hannibal Lecter: "A wonderful heirloom."

As Hannibal Lecter studies the piece, the restorers in the background leave the room.

Hannibal Lecter: "I'm so glad you stopped by, Commendator Pazzi, as I found another family heirloom for you."

Hannibal Lecter goes to a low cabinet under a display case. Pazzi watches, Hannibal Lecter's back to him as he unlocks the case, watching Pazzi's reflection in the glass. Pazzi notices the Harpy knife Hannibal Lecter has left by the half-eaten pear. There, on the hasp -- Hannibal Lecter's fingerprints. Pazzi eyes Hannibal Lecter, then smoothly picks up the knife with his handkerchief and slips it quickly into his pocket.

Hannibal Lecter produces an old woodcarving of a man hanged by his neck -- his entrails snaking down around his feet.

Hannibal Lecter: "Beneath the figure is written his name. Can you make it out?"

Inspector Pazzi: "It says, 'Pazzi.'"

Hannibal Lecter: "This is your ancestor, Francesco, hanging outside the Palazzo. This particular illustration is bowels out. I've seen others bowels in. By all accounts, Francesco was led astray by thirty pieces of silver from the hand of the Papal banker."

Inspector Pazzi: "Yes, the archbishop, in all his holy vestments, hanged beside Francesco and provided no spiritual comfort."

Hannibal Lecter looms behind Pazzi. A dark, unfocused figure, pointing at a detail on the woodcarving.

Hannibal Lecter: "It's hard to see, but here's where the archbishop bit him. Eyes wild as he choked, the archbishop locked his teeth in Pazzi's flesh. On a related subject, I must confess, I've been giving very serious thought to doing the same."

Pazzi turns and Hannibal Lecter snaps into focus. With one hand, he smothers Pazzi's face with an ether-soaked cloth.

Coffee beans are ground. A mound of ground on a puck is made flush and tamped. The puck is placed into the espresso machine. A stream of coffee flows into a cup.

INT. PAZZI'S APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Jack Crawford sits at the table, glancing at the brochure for the Exhibition of Atrocious Torture Instruments, as Allegra Pazzi places the cup of espresso down in front of him. She sits across from Jack, studying his concern.

Allegra Pazzi: "He said he would be home by now. What has he done?"

The woodcarving of Francesco de' Pazzi hangs by his neck, his entrails snaking down around his feet. The reflective light of a candle dances across the surface of the illustration, giving the appearance of the hanged man swaying in a light breeze. Over this, shallow breathing grows louder, along with the subtle squeaking of a dolly truck's wheels. The candlelight flickers to darkness, out of which emerges Hannibal Lecter.

Hannibal Lecter: "Can you hear me, Signor Pazzi?"

INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - WINDOW - NIGHT

Pazzi is strapped to an upright dolly by Hannibal Lecter who is positioning him in front of a large window. Pazzi's mouth is taped and his eyes blink slowly, trying to focus.

Hannibal Lecter: "Take some deep breaths while you can and clear your head."

Hannibal Lecter's hands are busy as he talks, rolling a big floor polisher into the room and working with its thick orange power cord, tying a hangman's noose in the plug end of the cord, making the traditional thirteen wraps.

Hannibal Lecter: "I haven't had a bite all day. Actually, your liver and kidneys would be suitable for dinner right away -- tonight, even -- but the rest of the meat should hang a week in the current cool conditions. I did not see the forecast, did you? I gather that means 'no.'"

Hannibal Lecter completes the hangman's noose with a tug.

Hannibal Lecter: "If you tell me what I need to know, commendatore, it'd be convenient for me to leave without my meal. I'll ask you the questions and then we'll see. You can trust me, you know, though I expect you find trust difficult, knowing yourself."

The noose tied from electrical cord is passed over Pazzi's head and secured around his neck.

Hannibal Lecter: "When the police didn't come, it was clear that you had sold me. Was it Mason Verger you sold me to?"

Pazzi nods.

Hannibal Lecter: "Thank you, I thought so. I called the number on his 'wanted' site once, far from here, just for fun. Have you told anyone in the Questura about me? Was that a nod?"

Pazzi shakes his head "no" as his cell phone begins to ring. Hannibal Lecter removes it and answers.

Hannibal Lecter: "Pronto."

EXT. VERGER ESTATE HOUSE - BALCONY - SUNSET

Alana Bloom speaks quietly into her cell phone.

Alana Bloom: "Inspector Pazzi. My name is Alana Bloom. You don't know me, but I know your benefactor--"

Hannibal Lecter smiles as he hears Alana Bloom's voice.

Hannibal Lecter: "Hello, Alana. I'm afraid the inspector is otherwise occupied."

Alana Bloom: "Hannibal. Is he dead?"

Hannibal Lecter: "There's nothing I'd love more than to be able to chat with you, but you caught me at an awkward moment. It's nice to hear your voice."

He hangs up and stuffs the phone back into Pazzi's pocket.

Alana Bloom: "Hannibal, please. Wait--"

INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - WINDOW - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter and Pazzi, as before.

Hannibal Lecter: "Which do you think, commendatore? Bowels in or bowels out? Bowels out, I think."

In a fluid movement, Hannibal Lecter turns, his Harpy knife flashing up Pazzi's front; he calmly tips Pazzi forward, out the window.

EXT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - NIGHT

Jack Crawford looks up just in time to see Pazzi's body tumble forward from the window high above the square. Pazzi falls to the extent of the electrical cable. It pulls whip-crack taut with a loud crack -- Pazzi's neck snapping. Only Pazzi's bowels continue the descent, ribboning from his abdomen and raining down onto the ancient cobblestones below.

Hannibal Lecter peers down at Jack in the square. He inhales the hollow shock from the tourists milling below. The rising murmur as people begin to notice Pazzi's body.

From Jack's perspective, Pazzi's body dangles above him. His head lolls at an unnatural angle. His intestines hang, entangled around his feet. A grisly puppet. And above is Hannibal Lecter.

Hannibal Lecter and Jack Crawford hold their positions for a long moment, and then Hannibal Lecter moves back inside. It breaks the moment and galvanizes Jack who rushes for the entrance. Around him, the cries of surprise from the crowd turn into screams of horror.

INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - ATROCIOUS TORTURE EXHIBIT - NIGHT

Hannibal Lecter walks briskly through the hall on his way out. There's the bang of a door shutting and Hannibal Lecter stops, listens. He glances around the room, but sees no one.

Hannibal Lecter: "Hello, Jack."

Hannibal Lecter listens for any sound to betray Jack's position.

Hannibal Lecter: "Did you get my note? I am truly sorry about Bella. For her, night and day would be very much the same in the end."

The room is a miasma of shadows. The only sound is the recurring creak of the upright trolley jamming against the window frame as Pazzi's body swings far below.

Hannibal Lecter: "When she could no longer stir or speak, did you speak for her?"

Half of Jack's face is concealed behind one of the display cases. The other half reflected in it. An alien symmetry.

Hannibal Lecter: "I imagine you were capable of giving any medication Bella may have needed in the night. Did you practice injections on an orange? What medication did you give her in the end, Jack? Was it too much? Or just enough?"

With his shoes off, Jack moves quickly and carefully toward Hannibal Lecter. Jack is reflected in a glass case -- there, and then gone.

Hannibal Lecter whirls.

Jack grabs Hannibal Lecter from behind and hurls him through a display case in a shower of glass. Glass falls and sprays, and the heavy implements within fall slowly, crashing back to real time in a clatter of iron and tinkle of glass. Hannibal Lecter's Harpy knife is thrown clear into the shadows.

Cut and shaken, Hannibal Lecter crawls toward a vicious-looking ax. Jack sees his intent and uses a meathook -- swinging it into Hannibal Lecter's calf and dragging him back toward Jack. Hannibal Lecter's hands grasp and miss the ax. Jack slams him with heavy fists, concussive blows. Jack throws Hannibal Lecter, who falls against the breaking wheel.

Hannibal Lecter stares at Jack, blood staining his teeth. Jack slams Hannibal Lecter with his fist, again and again. Hannibal Lecter's head rocks back against the wheel, his arm strained to the breaking point. But he lets the blows come.

Hannibal Lecter: "I brought Bella back from death and you returned her to it. Is that where you're sending me, Jack?"

Jack hits him again and Hannibal Lecter has his answer -- yes.

Jack yells in primal rage and releases the breaking wheel, and Hannibal Lecter sags forward. Jack wheels him and hurls him through another cabinet and into the scaffolding and packing cases beyond. Another shower of glass. Hannibal Lecter lands, face stung with a hundred tiny cuts. Not even trying to fight back. He slowly gets to his feet and begins to limp away halfheartedly.

Jack grabs Hannibal Lecter and drags him through the packing crates.

INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - WINDOW - NIGHT

Jack drags Hannibal Lecter toward the window.

Hannibal Lecter: "How will you feel when I'm gone?"

Jack Crawford: "Alive."

Jack hurls Hannibal Lecter backward out the window.

In slow motion, the knowledge of his own certain death is on Hannibal Lecter's face. And then, he lashes out an arm and seizes hold of Pazzi's body. He snags his hand on Pazzi's clothes and belt. His other hand grasps the electrical cord from which Pazzi is suspended.

Hannibal Lecter hangs there, looking up at Jack. And then, he slides down Pazzi's body and lets himself drop, past the hanging entrails, and he lands hard and falls in the street. One last look up, and then he staggers away.

From Jack's perspective, Hannibal Lecter is gone.