INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - KITCHEN - MORNING

A bright, intelligent young woman, Abigail Hobbs, answers the phone. Her mother Louise and father Garret Jacob Hobbs are preparing breakfast in the background.

Abigail Hobbs: "Hello? Just a second. Dad. It’s for you."

A canopy of trees. Shafts of light penetrate the branches and autumnal leaves, creating a moody surreality in the early morning mist.

EXT. MISTY FOREST - DAY

A serene tableau of natural beauty. A distant crick, and a beautiful white-tail doe raises its head into frame, listening. Previously munching leaves, it is now still. An eerie quiet moment, then from far away... P’KEE. A small piece of the doe's ear is taken off as a bullet grazes its lobe.

The doe bolts. She races through the forest, darting between trees and dense brush, desperate, terrified. Her heart pounds, her circulatory system a raging torrent in her ears. She runs.

Field glasses lower to reveal a hunter, fully-outfitted, with his daughter. This is Garret Jacob Hobbs and his daughter Abigail, 19. He hands her the field glasses.

Through Abigail's eyes, the doe slows and stops, scanning the area, warily catching its breath, listening. She turns to stare directly at Abigail. Sensing danger, the doe lopes away through the woods.

A 7 by 57 Roberts rifle raises on Abigail’s shoulder, tracking the running prey. Her finger clenches the trigger.

Garret Jacob Hobbs: "Be patient. Wait for the shot."

Abigail Hobbs tracks the doe, squints through the scope, and her finger squeezes the trigger. The gun fires loudly. Garret and Abigail wait with anticipation until they hear a toppling crash in the woods. Abigail is not as happy about the kill as her father.

Over the carcass of the fallen doe, we see them pull up in a pickup truck.

EXT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - DAY

Abigail and her father park in front of the cabin and climb out of the pickup, beginning to untie the doe.

INT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - MINNESOTA

Abigail and Garret Jacob Hobbs haul the doe carcass into the room and place her carefully on the gutting and skinning table.

Abigail Hobbs: "She was so pretty."

Garret Jacob Hobbs: "She is so pretty."

Abigail Hobbs: "Aren’t deer supposed to be complex emotional creatures?"

Garret Jacob Hobbs: "Yup."

Abigail Hobbs: "I read they’re like the equivalent of a 4-year-old human being."

Garret Jacob Hobbs: "They’re smarter than a 4 year old."

Abigail Hobbs: "So I just shot a smart 4 year old?"

Garret Jacob Hobbs: "A prodigy deer?"

Abigail Hobbs: "Dad, I could’a killed the deer that was going to solve global warming."

Garret Jacob Hobbs: "Don’t tell your mother."

Having successfully secured the doe to the gutting table, Abigail studies it sympathetically for a moment.

Abigail Hobbs: "They are a lot like us. They care about each other, they care about their environment. They tread lightly through underbrush because they don’t want to hurt plants."

Garret Jacob Hobbs: "They are a lot like us and we will honor every part of her. Her hide is going to be a beautiful rug, her leg bones we can carve into knives. None of her will go to waste."

Garret hands his daughter a butterfly knife and watches as she guts the suspended carcass.

Garret Jacob Hobbs: "Like we talked about. Start at the sternum, keep the blade pointed up. Damage any organs, ruin the meat."

Her blood-soaked hand reaches into the off-screen figure.

Abigail Hobbs: "I don’t know how I’m going to feel about eating her after all this."

The suspended, bloody figure hanging on the cabin wall isn’t a doe, but instead is Elise Nichols, one of the Minnesota Shrike’s victims.

Garret Jacob Hobbs: "Eating her is honoring her. Otherwise it’s just murder."

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL HOBBS’ ROOM - NIGHT - BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

Abigail has a respirator mask over her mouth, her eyes rolled up, lids fluttering when she suddenly takes a sharp intake of breath. Her eyes snap wide open and she blinks, focus returning to them. As she takes in her surroundings, we see her laid out in her hospital bed. Other than the respirator and the rapid beeping of the heart monitor, the floor seems quiet, deserted. The previous scene was a nightmare.

Disoriented, her hands instinctively go to her throat, feeling the bandages wrapped around it. Panicked, she yanks off the oxygen mask, rips away at the sensors, wires, and intravenous lines attached to her with mounting anxiety.

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - PATIO - EARLY MORNING

Will Graham steps out onto his porch in boxers and a t-shirt, hair tussled from recently getting out of bed. He’s followed by his pack of dogs. The pooches bound down the stairs toward the driveway and Will suddenly realizes he’s not alone.

Alana Bloom is stepping out of her car to greet the dogs as they return the favor. She smiles at Will.

Alana Bloom: "Morning."

Will Graham: "I didn’t hear you drive up."

Alana Bloom: "Hybrid. Good car for stalking."

Will Graham: "I’m compelled to go cover myself."

Alana Bloom: "I have brothers."

Will Graham: "I’ll put on a robe just the same. Do you want a cup of coffee? And more immediately why are you here?"

Alana Bloom: "Yes. And Abigail Hobbs woke up."

Will stops in his tracks.

Will Graham: "You know how to bury the lead."

Alana Bloom: "Want me to get you a cup of coffee?"

Will Graham: "No, I want to get my coat."

Alana Bloom: "Let’s have a cup of coffee. Or tea. Maybe a nice soothing tea."

INT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - LATER

Will and Alana sit in his kitchen sipping tea as Will’s phone rings and rings and rings and rings and finally stops.

Will Graham: "Is he going to keep calling?"

Alana Bloom: "Jack wants you to go see her."

Will Graham: "And you don’t."

Alana Bloom: "Eventually. Could help to take a step back before a step forward."

Will Graham: "Help who?"

Alana Bloom: "When you see Abigail, and I do think you should see her, I want it to be on your terms. I want you to get what you need. I want Abigail to get what she needs. What Jack needs, I’m not as concerned about."

Will smiles at her bulldoggishness in his defense.

Alana Bloom: "I don’t want to get in the middle of you and Jack, but if I can be helpful to you as a buffer..."

Will Graham: "I like you as a buffer. I also like the way you rattle Jack. He respects you too much to yell at you no matter how much he wants to."

Alana Bloom: "And I take advantage of that."

Will turns the subject back to what he’s most concerned with.

Will Graham: "Abigail Hobbs doesn’t have anyone."

Alana Bloom: "You can’t be her everyone. Don’t have to draw a line, but you might want to know where your line is."

Will Graham: "Keep my distance?"

She considers how to respond to that.

Alana Bloom: "When I said what I was going to say in my head, it sounded insulting. I’ll find another way to say it."

Will Graham: "Say it the insulting way."

Alana Bloom: "Dogs keep a promise a person can’t."

Will Graham: "I’m not collecting another stray."

Alana Bloom: "I told you it was insulting."

Will Graham: "I get it. I can trust a dog to be a dog, but I can’t trust Abigail Hobbs to be who I think she is."

Alana Bloom: "The first person Abigail talks to about what happened can’t be anyone who was there when it happened. That means no Dr. Lecter, either."

Will Graham: "Much less the guy who killed Dad."

Alana Bloom: "Let me reach out to her my own way."

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL HOBBS’ ROOM - DAY

Alana Bloom waddles down the corridor, struggling to hold onto several shopping bags she’s carrying. She enters Abigail Hobbs's room as quietly as possible to find Abigail sitting up in bed, reading a book, exhausted, vacant, looking like she just woke up from a coma.

Alana Bloom: "Hi. I’m Alana Bloom."

Alana unloads the shopping bags on the couch.

Abigail Hobbs: "Are you a doctor?"

Alana Bloom: "Not medicine. I’m a psychiatrist."

Abigail Hobbs: "What do you specialize in?"

Alana Bloom: "Among other things, family trauma."

Abigail Hobbs: "I asked the nurses if my parents were dead and they wouldn’t tell me. Said I had to wait for you."

Alana sits on the edge of Abigail’s bed.

Alana Bloom: "I’m sorry you had to wait."

Abigail Hobbs: "I know they’re dead."

Alana studies her and the strange admission. Abigail’s chin crumples with emotion but she fights it.

Abigail Hobbs: "Who buried them?"

Alana Bloom: "They haven’t been buried."

Abigail Hobbs: "Don’t you think they should be?"

Alana Bloom: "Your mother was cremated per the instructions in her living will."

An almost imperceptible scoff.

Abigail Hobbs: "“Living.” Will. My dad?"

Alana Bloom: "Your father is more complicated."

Abigail Hobbs: "Because he was crazy?"

Alana Bloom: "Nurses said you didn’t remember."

Abigail Hobbs: "I remember. I just didn’t want to talk about it with them. Is this your book?"

Alana Bloom: "I was reading it to you."

Abigail Hobbs: "I started turning pages. Felt like I read it before. I remember your voice and dreaming about peacocks. Aren’t they really stupid birds?"

Alana realizes Abigail is quoting her conversation with Will.

Alana Bloom: "Yes."

Abigail Hobbs: "I want to sell the house. I guess it’s mine now. I can use the money for college, get an apartment."

Alana studies Abigail and her surprising practicality.

Abigail Hobbs: "What’re all those?"

Alana Bloom: "Brought you some clothes. Thought a change would feel good. I guessed your size. Anything you don’t want keep the tags on. I’ll return it. And I brought you some music, too."

Abigail Hobbs: "Your music?"

Alana Bloom: "If there isn’t anything you like, I got a stack of iTunes gift cards. I’ve got a stack of gift cards. I don’t do well redeeming gift cards."

Abigail Hobbs: "Probably says something about you."

Alana Bloom: "Probably does."

INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORD’S OFFICE - DAY

Alana Bloom and Hannibal Lecter sit across from Jack Crawford.

Jack Crawford: "I have 7 families waiting, let me rephrase, demanding that we find whatever’s left of their daughters. Abigail Hobbs is the only person I can ask who might know the truth."

Alana Bloom: "You can’t ask her right now. We have to create a safe place for her first or you won’t get any answers."

Jack Crawford: "I respect your sympathy for her, Doctor Bloom. One day I hope you’ll appreciate my lack of it."

Alana Bloom: "I have some appreciation."

Jack Crawford: "Only body we found is the one Hobbs didn’t eat. 7 bodies. 7 girls."

Hannibal Lecter: "7 sisters, in Abigail’s mind. When she learns of her father’s crimes."

Jack Crawford: "May already know about them. Her DNA’s all over his slaughterhouse."

Alana Bloom: "You really think Abigail helped her father kill those girls?"

Jack Crawford: "It is one possibility that needs to be ruled out. If she didn’t help her father, she may know who did."

Hannibal Lecter: "How was Abigail? When you saw her?"

Alana Bloom: "Surprisingly practical."

Jack Crawford: "Suspiciously practical?"

Hannibal Lecter: "I would suggest she can be practical without being a murderer."

Alana Bloom: "I think she’s hiding something."

Hannibal Lecter: "It may simply be her trauma."

Alana Bloom: "Yes. Could also be more. She has a penchant for manipulation, withheld information to gain information. She demonstrated only enough emotions to prove she had them."

Jack Crawford: "Appreciating my lack of sympathy?"

Alana Bloom: "Providing psychological evaluation."

Hannibal Lecter: "You said it may be more than trauma yet you question her involvement in the murders her father committed."

Alana Bloom: "What I’m questioning is her state of mind. She repeated something I said when she was... unconscious."

Jack Crawford: "Leading you to believe she wasn’t."

Alana Bloom: "Leading me to believe it was odd."

Hannibal Lecter: "It is odd, but not unheard of for the comatose or anesthetized to recall word for word conversations that took place in their presence."

Jack Crawford: "I want Will Graham to talk to her."

Alana Bloom: "Jack. Not yet."

Jack Crawford: "Doctor Bloom, you’re not Will’s psychiatrist. Doctor Lecter is."

Hannibal Lecter: "For intents and purposes, yes, but I’m not entirely objective on this. Will and I share a compassion for Abigail Hobbs, we saved her life."

Jack Crawford: "Then who better to create a safe place for her to answer questions."

INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL - DAY

A succession of photos of young women, similar in appearance, click onto a screen.

Will Graham is in front of his classroom.

Will Graham: "Garret Jacob Hobbs abducted and murdered eight girls over an eight month period. They each had the same hair color. Same eye color. Same age, same height, same weight as his daughter Abigail. But there was a ninth victim who fit Abigail Hobbs’ profile but Garret Jacob Hobbs didn’t murder her."

A picture of Cassie Boyle appears, impaled on the antlers of a severed stag head, her death a grotesque work of art.

Will Graham: "The killer who did wanted us to know he wasn’t the Minnesota Shrike. He was better than that. He is an intelligent psychopath. He is a sadist. He will never kill like this again. So how do we catch him?"

Jack Crawford and Hannibal Lecter enter, the reflective light of the projection screen bouncing off their faces. They speak in hushed tones.

Hannibal Lecter: "Giving a lecture on Hobbs’ Copy Cat?"

Jack Crawford: "Need every mind on this we can get."

Will Graham: "This Copy Cat is an avid reader of Freddie Lounds and TattleCrime.com. He had intimate knowledge of Garret Jacob Hobbs’ murders. Motives, patterns. Enough to recreate them and arguably elevate them. To art."

A picture of Abigail and Garret Jacob Hobbs in happier times on a hunting expedition appears.

Will Graham: "How intimately did he know Garret Jacob Hobbs? Did he appreciate him from afar, or did he engage him? Did he ingratiate himself into Hobbs’ life? Did Hobbs know his Copy Cat as he knew him?"

A picture of Louise Hobbs appears, her throat sliced open, lying in a dark pool of her own blood.

Will Graham: "Before Garret Jacob Hobbs murdered his wife and attempted to do the same to his daughter, he received an untraceable call, re-routed through a swatting service."

A picture of Garret Jacob Hobbs appears, bloodied and filled with bullets, slumped dead in the corner of his kitchen.

Will Graham: "I believe the as-yet unidentified caller was our Copy Cat Killer."

Hannibal Lecter stands silhouetted in the darkness.

Hannibal Lecter: "Brilliant."

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL HOBBS’ ROOM - DAY

Abigail sits upright in bed, senses on alert. Freddie Lounds is standing across from her.

Abigail Hobbs: "So you’re not a doctor or a nurse or a psychiatrist?"

Freddie Lounds: "I’m a journalist. I want to tell the truth. Your truth. Sometimes that involves some deception. But know this, I will never lie to you."

Abigail Hobbs: "Sounds like what a liar would say."

Freddie Lounds: "You have every right not to trust me, but in time, Abigail, I hope you let me prove that you can. If you tell me what you know, I can help you fill in the blanks."

Abigail Hobbs: "Why not tell me what you know."

Freddie Lounds: "Your dad was the Minnesota Shrike. Your mother wasn’t the first person your father killed. He killed 8 girls. 8 girls that look --"

Abigail Hobbs: "Just like me."

Freddie Lounds: "Yes."

Abigail reels from the larger meaning of that.

Abigail Hobbs: "Why did they call him the Shrike?"

Freddie Lounds: "It’s a bird that impales its prey, harvests its organs to eat later."

Abigail Hobbs: "He ate them?"

Freddie Lounds: "He was sick."

Abigail Hobbs: "Does that mean I’m sick, too?"

Freddie Lounds: "You’ll be fighting that perception. Perception is the most important thing in your life right now."

Abigail Hobbs: "I don’t care what anyone thinks."

Freddie Lounds: "You better start caring, Abigail. What you remember, what you tell everyone, is going to define the rest of your life. Let me help you."

Abigail Hobbs: "Help me what?"

Freddie Lounds: "Carve a path in this world so you can survive what your father did. And not be held accountable."

Abigail absorbs the brunt of that truth.

Abigail Hobbs: "How did they catch him?"

Freddie Lounds: "A man named Will Graham. Works for the FBI but isn’t FBI. He catches insane men because he can think like them. Because he is insane."

Will Graham, Hannibal Lecter and two hospital orderlies enter.

Freddie Lounds: "Speak of the devil."

Will Graham: "Would you excuse us please?"

Freddie Lounds: "I’m not leaving you alone with her."

Will nods to the orderlies, who then flank Freddie.

Will Graham: "I’m Special Agent Will Graham."

As Freddie is escorted to the door.

Freddie Lounds: "By Special Agent, he means not really an Agent. He didn’t get past the screening process. Too unstable."

Hannibal Lecter: "I must insist you leave the room."

Before leaving, Freddie offers Abigail a business card.

Freddie Lounds: "If you want to talk --"

Will snatches the card without saying a word. Freddie doesn’t offer any more resistance as the orderlies escort her out.

Will Graham: "Abigail, this is Doctor Lecter... Do you remember us?"

A flash of memory: Abigail lies bleeding, gasping, terrified. Will frantically tries to stem the hemorrhage from her cut throat. Hannibal kneels beside her and applies pressure to her wound.

Abigail Hobbs: "I remember you. You killed my dad."

That hangs there a moment, a weighted memory.

Hannibal Lecter: "You’ve been in a bed for 3 weeks, Abigail. Why don’t we have a walk?"

EXT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - GARDENS - DAY

Abigail walks weak-legged, supported by Hannibal Lecter and Will Graham.

Will Graham: "I’m sorry we couldn’t save your mother. We did everything we could, but she was already gone."

Tears sting Abigail’s eyes, threatening to spill, but don’t.

Abigail Hobbs: "I know. I saw him kill her."

Hannibal Lecter: "You saw it?"

Abigail Hobbs: "It was sort of like seeing it."

Hannibal Lecter: "There was no vocabulary for your mind to articulate the violence."

Abigail Hobbs: "Didn’t seem real. He was loving right up until the second he wasn’t. He kept telling me he was sorry and to just hold still. He was going to make it all go away."

Will Graham: "There was plenty wrong with your father, Abigail, but there’s nothing wrong with you. You said he was loving. I believe it. That’s what you brought out in him."

Abigail Hobbs: "It’s not all I brought out in him."

Hannibal Lecter: "Did he tell you about the young women he murdered?"

Abigail goes silent and Will shoots Hannibal a look.

Will Graham: "You don’t have to answer that right now, if you don’t want to."

Hannibal Lecter: "But we will have to ask you those questions eventually."

Abigail Hobbs: "I’m going to be messed up, aren’t I? I’m worried about nightmares."

Hannibal Lecter: "We’ll help you with the nightmares."

Will Graham: "There’s no such thing as getting used to what you experienced. It bothers me a lot. I can only imagine how it bothers you when I see it over and over in my mind. I worry about nightmares, too."

Abigail Hobbs: "Do you have nightmares about killing my dad?"

Will Graham: "Sometimes it’s hard for me to dream about much else."

Abigail Hobbs: "Killing somebody, even if you have to do it, it feels that bad?"

Will Graham: "Ugliest thing in the world."

Hannibal Lecter eyes Will, knowing he’s not telling the whole truth. Abigail takes Will’s words in for a brief moment.

Abigail Hobbs: "I want to go home."

EXT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - PARKING LOT - DAY

Freddie Lounds leans on the hood of Hannibal’s midnight blue Bentley, waiting. She spots Hannibal and Will as they approach and quickly stands, almost respectfully.

Freddie Lounds: "Special Agent Graham, I never formally introduced myself. I’m Freddie Lounds."

Will Graham: "Trying to salvage this joke from the mouth of madness?"

Freddie Lounds: "Please. Let me apologize for my behavior in there. It was sloppy and misguided. And hurtful."

Hannibal Lecter: "Miss Lounds, now isn’t the time."

Freddie Lounds: "Look, you and I may have our own reasons for being here, but I also think we both genuinely care what happens to Abigail Hobbs."

Will Graham: "You told her I was insane."

Freddie Lounds: "I can un-do that."

Will Graham: "You help Abigail see me as more than her father’s killer and I help you with online ad sales?"

Freddie Lounds: "I can un-do what I said. I can also make it a lot worse."

Will Graham: "Miss Lounds, it’s not very smart to piss off a guy who thinks about killing people for a living."

Hannibal Lecter sighs at Will’s unfortunate choice of words.

INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORD’S OFFICE - DAY

Jack sits behind his desk reading off his computer screen. Hannibal Lecter and Alana Bloom sit on either side of a silent Will Graham.

Jack Crawford: "“It’s not very smart to piss off a guy who thinks about killing people for a living.” Know what else isn’t very smart? You were there with him and you let those words come out of his mouth."

Hannibal Lecter: "I trust Will to speak for himself."

Jack Crawford: "Evidently, you shouldn’t."

Alana Bloom: "I’m just happy the story wasn’t about Abigail Hobbs."

Jack Crawford: "Then it’s a victory. Abigail Hobbs wants to go home. Let’s take Abigail Hobbs home."

Alana Bloom: "What Abigail wants and what she needs are two different things. Taking her out of a controlled environment would be reckless."

Jack Crawford: "You said she was practical."

Will Graham: "That could just mean she has a dissociative disorder."

Alana Bloom: "You take her home, she may experience intense emotions, respond aggressively. Or reenact some aspect of the traumatic event without even realizing it."

Jack Crawford: "Doctor Lecter?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Doctor Bloom is right, but there is a scenario where revisiting the trauma event could help Abigail heal and actually prevent denial."

Jack Crawford: "We have a difference of opinion, therefore I’m choosing the opinion that best serves my agenda."

Alana Bloom: "Will killed her father to save her life. If she sees Will as her savior and he doesn’t meet her expectations, she could transfer rage toward her father onto him."

Jack Crawford: "He’ll deal with it. I want to know if Will’s right about our Copy Cat."

Hannibal Lecter: "That the Copy Cat called the Hobbs house before the murders?"

Jack nods.

Alana Bloom: "We have no way of knowing what’s waiting for her when she goes home."

INT. MINNESOTA COFFEE BAR - DAY

Nicholas Boyle sits at a table as Freddie Lounds approaches with two cups of coffee, setting one down in front of him.

Freddie Lounds: "Thanks again for meeting me. I know this hasn’t been easy for you."

Nick Boyle: "How would you know?"

Freddie Lounds: "I’ve been writing about Garret Jacob Hobbs. I’ve spoken to relatives of his other victims."

Nick Boyle: "Hobbs is dead. Deserved a lot worse. Him and his whole family."

Freddie Lounds: "There has to be some small comfort that justice was served."

Nick Boyle: "Comfort? My sister was impaled on a severed stag head. Cut down the middle. He pulled her lungs out while she was still breathing."

Freddie Lounds: "I’m sorry, I am, but you have to try not to remember her that way."

Nick Boyle: "What do you want from me?"

Freddie Lounds: "I just thought you should know Abigail Hobbs came out of her coma."

Nick Boyle takes that in.

EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - DAY

An expensive rental car pulls into the driveway, Hannibal Lecter behind the wheel. All four doors open and Hannibal, Will Graham, Alana Bloom and Abigail Hobbs step out to consider the Hobbs home. Scrawled across the front of the house in eight-foot-tall letters is the word CANNIBALS.

Abigail stares at the faded rust-colored stain on the front step where her mother died, her eyes brimming with tears but not overflowing.

Abigail Hobbs: "I was sort of expecting a body outline in chalk or tape."

Will Graham: "They only do that if you’re still alive and taken to the hospital before they finish the crime scene."

Those words wash over Abigail, she’s barely aware of them.

Abigail Hobbs: "Goodbye, mom."

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - DAY

The door opens into the darkened space. Alana and Abigail enter, with Hannibal and Will floating closely behind. Abigail lingers in the kitchen doorway. The room is more or less scrubbed, thoroughly gone over by cleaners.

Alana Bloom: "If you ever want to go, you just have to say so and we will go."

Abigail Hobbs: "Go where? Back to the hospital?"

Alana Bloom: "For now."

Alana and Hannibal hang back and allow Will to follow Abigail into the kitchen. She notices all the family pictures on the refrigerator have been turned around.

Abigail Hobbs: "They turned all the pictures over."

Alana Bloom: "Crime scene cleaners will do that."

She glances at the clean table and the linoleum floor.

Abigail Hobbs: "They did a really good job. Is that where all my blood was?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

Abigail wraps her head around that.

Abigail Hobbs: "You do this all the time? Go places and think about killing?"

Will Graham: "Too often."

Abigail Hobbs: "So you pretended to be my dad?"

Will Graham: "And people like your dad."

Abigail Hobbs: "What did that feel like? To be him?"

Will Graham: "If feels like I’m talking to his shadow suspended on dust."

Abigail Hobbs: "You think you knew him?"

Will Graham: "I tried to know him. I still try."

Abigail Hobbs: "Even after you killed him?"

Will Graham: "Maybe even because I killed him."

Alana studies Will, realizing how difficult this is for him.

Abigail Hobbs: "No wonder you have nightmares."

Hannibal Lecter: "We should discuss your nightmare."

Will Graham: "The attacks on you and your mother, they were different. Desperate. Your dad knew he was out of time. Someone told him we were coming."

Abigail Hobbs: "The man on the phone?"

Will Graham: "It was a blocked call. Did you recognize his voice?"

Abigail Hobbs: "I had never heard it before."

She gives a small, almost imperceptible glance at Hannibal.

Alana Bloom: "Was there anybody new in your father’s life. Someone you met or someone he talked about."

Abigail shakes her head “no.”

Will Graham: "He may have been contacted by another serial killer, a copy cat."

Abigail Hobbs: "Someone who’s still out there?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - DAY

Will, Alana and Abigail scrub the graffiti letters spelling “CANNIBALS.” Hannibal delivers a bucket of soapy water, the extent of his hard labor.

Abigail Hobbs: "Can you catch somebody’s crazy?"

Alana Bloom: "Folie a deux."

Abigail Hobbs: "What?"

Alana Bloom: "A French psychiatric term. “Madness shared by two.”"

Will’s breathing and heartbeat grow deafening in his ears as he stares at the door. It suddenly opens. Louise Hobbs, bleeding and wheezing, is shoved onto the doorstep by Garret Jacob Hobbs, who slams the door behind her. Will snaps back to reality, continuing to scrub the graffiti.

Hannibal Lecter: "One can not be delusional if the belief in question is accepted as ordinary by others in that person’s culture or subculture. Or family."

Abigail Hobbs: "My dad didn’t seem delusional. He was a perfectionist. After he skinned a deer, he would pluck the loose hair. Most people use a torch. Dad would remove all the hair by hand. He wanted to make sure he got every one of them."

Will Graham: "Your dad left almost no evidence."

Abigail Hobbs: "Is that why you let me come home? To find evidence?"

Hannibal Lecter: "It was one of many considerations."

Abigail Hobbs: "Are we going to re-enact the crime? You be my dad. You be my mom. And you be the man on the phone."

Uncharacteristically, Hannibal is caught off guard by that, and by Abigail’s steely, nonchalant stare that follows.

Alana Bloom: "We wanted you to come home to help you leave home behind."

Abigail Hobbs: "You’re not going to find any of those girls, you know."

Will Graham: "Why do you say that?"

Abigail Hobbs: "He’d honor every part of them. Made plumbers putty out of elk bones. At least that’s what he told us. You know, to seal threads. Whatever bones were left of those girls is probably holding pipes together."

Hannibal Lecter: "Where did he make this putty?"

Abigail Hobbs: "At the cabin. I can show you."

Alana Bloom: "Abigail... there’s someone here."

Abigail finds Marissa, a girl her age, standing behind her.

Marissa: "Hey, Abigail."

Abigail Hobbs: "Hey."

EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - BACKYARD - STREAM - DAY

Abigail and Marissa walk along the stream that runs through the yard. Marissa nods at Abigail’s bandaged neck.

Marissa: "Does it hurt?"

Abigail Hobbs: "Sometimes."

Marissa: "I thought it was TV. But I was watching Applejack and Twilight and they don’t scream like that. And then there was all this shooting. Bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang. Very surreal, very public. Everybody on the block was on the news and then everybody at school. Whores."

Abigail Hobbs: "They won’t let me online."

Marissa: "You don’t want to be online. It’s all “The family that preys together stays together.” But prey is with an E instead of an A because --"

Abigail Hobbs: "Did you talk to the news?"

Marissa: "No. My mom doesn’t want me talking to you, much less the news."

Marissa glances over her shoulder, looking out for her mother.

Abigail Hobbs: "Since when do you listen to her."

Marissa: "Clearly I’m not listening to her if I’m here talking to you. You know everybody thinks you did it."

Abigail Hobbs: "I read the front of my house."

Marissa: "Those bitches from pep squad."

Abigail Hobbs: "Do you think I did it?"

Marissa: "I don’t think you’re the type. But I didn’t think your dad was the murder-suicide type. Although the hunting should have been a clue."

Abigail Hobbs: "Mine or his?"

Marissa: "Both, now that you mention it. I don’t think you did it."

A man’s voice calls out.

Nick Boyle: "I do."

The girls look over to see Nick Boyle, a man in his mid-20s.

Abigail Hobbs: "This is private property."

Nick Boyle: "You were the bait. Is that how it worked? Lure ‘em back to daddy for dinner? How’d you trap my sister? Chat her up? Say things girls say?"

Marissa: "Piss. Off."

Marissa picks up a rock and throws it at Nick. He sidesteps it and continues to harass them.

Nick Boyle: "You help dad cut my sister’s lungs out while she was still using them?"

Marissa throws another rock, striking Nick across his forehead and leaving a small gash. He stumbles, briefly silenced. When he looks up, clutching his bloody head wound, he looks right at Marissa, murder in his eyes. Then he reacts, quickly turning and running. Marissa and Abigail turn to see Will and Hannibal approaching from around the house. Alana and Marissa’s mother follow immediately behind.

Hannibal Lecter: "Who was that?"

Abigail Hobbs: "Somebody’s brother."

Marissa’s Mother: "Marissa. Come home."

Marissa snaps at her mother.

Marissa: "Stop being such a bitch. See you later."

Abigail Hobbs: "Bye."

EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - ACROSS THE STREAM - MOMENTS LATER

Hannibal and Will stomp through the forest, returning from looking for Nick Boyle.

Will Graham: "He’s gone."

Hannibal’s eyes fall to a bloodied rock on the embankment near the stream. As he turns to meet Will, his foot inconspicuously kicks a few dead leaves to cover it.

Will Graham: "You’ve never seen him before?"

Abigail Hobbs: "No. Have you?"

Will shakes his head “no.”

Hannibal Lecter: "We should report this, yes?"

Will Graham: "Yes."

EXT. WILL GRAHAM’S HOUSE - DAY - DREAMSCAPE

In slow motion, Will stands outside his home. A subtle crunching of grass indicates he is not alone. He glances over to see a black stag walking quietly through the meadow toward him. Will holds his breath. The stag stops and watches him.

Will is now holding Abigail Hobbs with a knife to her throat.

Will Graham: "I’m sorry, Abigail. Please just hold still. Please. I’m going to make it all go away."

Will stares at the beast, then cuts Abigail’s throat. Arterial spray peppers the grass in large drops. A horrible tone pierces the air as the black stag bolts.

Will startles awake in his bed at the abrasive drone of the alarm clock, drenched with sweat.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Will peels off his wet t-shirt and shuffles to the curtains to let a blast of daylight into the darkened room.

EXT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - DAY

Two local police cars lead Hannibal’s rental car down the driveway. Hannibal, Will, Alana and Abigail step out, taking in the cabin. A local detective and two police officers remove the crime scene tape obstructing the door and allow them to enter, waiting respectfully outside.

INT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - DAY

The door opens and Abigail steps inside. Will wads up the crime scene tape and tosses it aside.

Abigail Hobbs: "He cleaned everything. He said he was afraid of germs but I guess he was just afraid of getting caught."

Will Graham: "No one else ever came up here with your dad? Except you?"

She shakes her head “no.”

Will Graham: "Ever help him make plumbing putty?"

Abigail Hobbs: "He made everything by himself. Plumbing putty, glue, butter. He sold the pelts on ebay or in town. He made pillows. Carved knives out of leg bones. No parts went to waste. Otherwise it was murder. Was feeding them to us, wasn’t he?"

No one responds immediately.

Hannibal Lecter: "It’s very likely."

Abigail crosses to the gutting/skinning table.

Abigail Hobbs: "Before he cut my throat, he told me he killed those girls so he wouldn’t have to kill me."

Alana Bloom: "You’re not responsible for anything your father did, Abigail."

Abigail Hobbs: "If he would have just killed me, none of those girls would be dead."

PLIP. A single drop of blood falls from the ceiling onto Abigail’s cheek. She wipes it off with her fingertip and stares at it a brief moment before glancing up.

INT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - ANTLER ROOM - DAY

Will, Hannibal and Alana stare at something horrifying. Will speaks into his phone.

Will Graham: "I need ERT at the Hobbs Cabin."

A young woman hangs naked, impaled on a rack of antlers. Will approaches and slowly lifts her head. It’s Marissa. Abigail has climbed the stairs behind Hannibal and Alana. Her eyes go wide, realizing what has happened. Abigail screams.

EXT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - DAY

Police cars and officers are everywhere. Abigail is being comforted by Alana along the edge of the woods as crime scene investigators move in and out of the cabin. An F.B.I. S.U.V. barrels down the dirt road and Jack Crawford steps out.

INT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - ANTLER ROOM - DAY

Will Graham examines Marissa’s swollen lip as Hannibal Lecter admires the handiwork of her killer.

Will Graham: "Do you think she knew him?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Her killer?"

Will Graham: "Abigail. Do you think she knew the guy down by the stream?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Somebody’s brother?"

Will Graham: "Not somebody. She said he asked her if she helped her dad take his sister’s lungs while she was alive."

Hannibal Lecter: "The young woman on the stag head."

Will Graham: "Cassie Boyle. She had a brother. Nicholas. But Garret Jacob Hobbs didn’t kill Cassie Boyle."

With gloved hands and plastic tools, Will respectfully levers Marissa’s jaw wide. Wielding an LED flashlight with an alternative light source, he shines it into her mouth.

Hannibal Lecter: "I know. Garret Jacob Hobbs would have honored every part of her."

Jack Crawford climbs the stairs, already frustrated.

Jack Crawford: "You bring Abigail Hobbs back to Minnesota to find out if she had anything to do with her father’s murders and another girl dies."

Will ignores Jack’s frustrations.

Will Graham: "There’s talcum on her lip. He was wearing gloves when he hit her. Split the latex on her tooth."

Jack Crawford: "You said the Copy Cat was an intelligent psychopath. No traceable motive. No patterns. He would never kill like this again."

Will Graham: "I may have been wrong about that."

Jack Crawford: "Garret Jacob Hobbs didn’t hit girls. Why would his Copy Cat?"

Hannibal Lecter: "He was provoked."

Will Graham: "Scraped his knuckle on her teeth. There’s foreign tissue and what could be trace amounts of blood."

Jack Crawford: "Where was Abigail Hobbs when this girl was murdered?"

Will Graham: "In her hotel room."

Jack Crawford: "Where were you?"

Will Graham: "I fell asleep early."

Jack Crawford: "So you don’t know if she was in her hotel room or not."

Hannibal Lecter: "We believe Nicholas Boyle murdered this girl. And his own sister."

Jack Crawford: "With or without Abigail Hobbs?"

Will Graham: "Without."

Jack Crawford: "Did Abigail Hobbs know Cassie Boyle? Did she know Nicholas Boyle?"

Will Graham: "No."

Jack Crawford: "Don’t think she knows them or you don’t want to think she knows them?"

Will Graham: "She said she didn’t know them."

Jack Crawford: "Doctor Bloom said Abigail Hobbs has a penchant for manipulation. Is she manipulating you, Will?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Agent Crawford."

Jack Crawford: "You tell me you were wrong about Hobbs’ Copy Cat. I want to know what else you were wrong about."

Will Graham: "Whoever killed the girl in the field, killed this girl. I’m right about that. He knew exactly how to mount the body. Wound patterns are almost identical to Cassie Boyle. The same design, same humiliation."

Hannibal Lecter: "Abigail Hobbs isn’t a killer but she could be the target of one."

Jack Crawford: "I think it’s time Abigail Hobbs left home for good. Pack up whatever she needs to pack up and get her out of Minnesota. Now. Not you, Will. You stay right here."

EXT. HOBBS NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT

The reflection of police lights dances across the window Abigail is looking through as Hannibal drives her, with Alana Bloom in the passenger seat, toward her home. Police officers part to allow the car into the driveway, reforming to keep the circus of reporters at bay. As they get out of the car, they are bombarded by questions.

Various Reporters: "Abigail. Did you know you were a cannibal? Abigail. Anything to say to the families of your father’s victims? Abigail. Did your father feed you those girls? Abigail."

Marissa’s mother pushes her way through the police line. A policeman awkwardly tries to hold her back. Like a paternal shield, Hannibal eases Abigail toward Alana and steps to intercept the woman. He bars her path, gripping her arms, his hands soft but firm.

Marissa’s Mother: "Why come back? Why did you come back here? Why did you come back?"

Abigail can’t find her words. Marissa’s mother is so wracked with grief she can barely stand. Freddie Lounds steps out of the shadows near the garage.

Freddie Lounds: "Abigail."

Hannibal Lecter: "Miss Lounds, you’re on the wrong side of the police line."

Freddie Lounds: "This is my tale to tell. I’ve been covering the Minnesota Shrike long before you got involved."

A police officer grabs Freddie by the elbow, ushering her away. She calls out.

Freddie Lounds: "I want to help you tell your story. You need me now more than ever."

Abigail Hobbs: "I want to talk to her."

Alana Bloom: "No, you don’t. Go inside."

Abigail reluctantly does as instructed. Hannibal joins Freddie's escort across the police line.

Freddie Lounds: "I’m not the only one lurking about the Hobbs house peeking in windows. They really should monitor those police lines more carefully."

Hannibal Lecter: "Have you seen a young man? Mid-20s, ginger hair? Un-washed."

Freddie Lounds: "I’ll tell you if I saw him if you tell me why it’s important."

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - RECREATION ROOM - NIGHT

Abigail sits on the couch, crying quietly, emotionally exhausted. She clutches a handmade pillow, embroidered with a deer and trimmed in pelt. It dawns on her. Her hands gnarl as she begins pulling at the fabric, digging her fingernails into it. The pillow rips at the seams and she tears it open. She pulls out the stuffing. Wads and wads and wads of human hair. Her heartbeat pounds in her ears.

As she reels from this horror, a breeze blows through her hair. She looks up to see the sliding glass doors are now open. Standing in front of her is Nicholas Boyle.

Nick Boyle: "I’m not going to hurt you. I got to talk to someone. I didn’t kill that girl. I swear I didn’t."

Abigail instinctively goes still. Then bolts. Nick Boyle grabs her, spins her around and forces her against the wall, his hand over her mouth.

Nick Boyle: "I didn’t --"

Nick stiffens suddenly, eyes going wide. Abigail has plunged a kitchen knife into him at his sternum. She pulls it down, gutting him in one horrible motion. Just like her father showed her. Nick stumbles back, already glassy-eyed, and his entrails spill onto the floor.

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - FOYER - NIGHT

Alana and Hannibal enter through the front doors.

Alana Bloom: "Abigail?"

Before Alana can reach the kitchen, she sees a bloodied Abigail walking up the stairs, shell-shocked.

Alana Bloom: "Abigail..."

WHAM. Hannibal palms the side of Alana's head from behind, slamming her into the wall. She is instantly knocked out, collapsing into Hannibal’s arms as he gently lies her on the ground. Abigail is stunned, but he reassures her.

Hannibal Lecter: "She’ll be alright. Show me what happened."

INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - RECREATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Hannibal cautiously enters, Abigail behind him, to find the disemboweled corpse of Nick Boyle. Abigail doesn’t weep; she simply stares. Hannibal squats beside her, putting a steady hand on her shoulder. His voice is gentle, fatherly.

Hannibal Lecter: "Abigail."

Abigail is terrified, traumatized by the blood on her hands.

Abigail Hobbs: "He was going to kill me."

Hannibal Lecter: "Was he? This isn’t self-defense, Abigail. You butchered him."

Abigail Hobbs: "I didn’t..."

Hannibal Lecter: "They will see what you did and they will see you as an accessory to the crimes of your father."

Abigail Hobbs: "I wasn’t."

Hannibal Lecter: "I can help you, if you ask me to. At great risk to my career and my life. You have a choice. You can tell them you were defending yourself when you gutted this man... or we can hide the body."

EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - NIGHT

Alana is in the back of an ambulance, the side of her head being bandaged. Will sits across from her; Jack Crawford stands just outside the doors.

Alana Bloom: "I don’t remember anything. Maybe a blur out of the corner of my eye, then a big, fat cut to black."

Jack Crawford: "Nicholas Boyle attacked Abigail. You. Struck Lecter across the back of head with a fireplace poker."

Alana Bloom: "Where is Abigail?"

Will Graham: "Lecter took her back to the hotel."

Jack Crawford: "Scratched Nicholas Boyle before he ran out the back door. Blood on her hands matches the tissue we pulled from Marissa Schuur’s mouth."

Alana Bloom: "He got away?"

Will Graham: "He won’t go to a hospital. He knows he’ll get caught if he does."

Jack Crawford: "We’ll get him one way or another."

Alana Bloom: "What’s one way?"

Will Graham: "We’ll find his body, bled out. He already lost a lot of blood."

Frustrated, Will climbs out of the ambulance.

Jack Crawford: "Where are you going?"

Will Graham: "I’m tired, Jack. I want to go home."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Will sits opposite Hannibal, who listens intently.

Will Graham: "Sometimes at night, I leave the lights on in my little house and walk across the flat fields. When I look back from a distance, the house is like a boat at sea. It’s really the only time I feel safe."

Hannibal Lecter: "Far from shores that would breach the hull structure of your mind. What dark waters would they let in?"

Will Graham: "My mind has already been breached."

Hannibal Lecter: "You view your mentality as grotesque but useful."

Will Graham: "Like a chair made of antlers."

Hannibal Lecter: "You stood in the breathing silence of Garret Jacob Hobbs’ home. The very spaces he moved through. Tell me, Will, did they speak to you?"

Will Graham: "With noise and clarity."

Hannibal Lecter: "You could sense his madness. Like a bloodhound sniffs a shirt."

Will Graham: "I tried so hard to know Garret Jacob Hobbs. To see him past the glint of slides and vials, beneath the lines of police reports, between the pixels of all those printed faces of sad, dead girls."

Hannibal Lecter: "How did you feel seeing Marissa Schuur impaled in his antler room?"

Will Graham: "Guilty."

Hannibal Lecter: "Because you couldn’t save her?"

Will Graham: "Because I felt like I killed her."

Hannibal Lecter: "A lipless voice accusing you."

Will Graham: "I got so close to him. Sometimes I felt like we were doing the same things at various times of the day. Like I was eating or showering or sleeping at the same time he was."

Hannibal Lecter: "Even after he was dead?"

Will Graham: "Even after he was dead."

Hannibal Lecter: "Like you were becoming him."

Will Graham: "I know who I am. I’m not Garret Jacob Hobbs, Dr. Lecter. But I don’t think I should see Abigail anymore. Not for a while."

INT. HANNIBAL’S OFFICE - LATER THAT NIGHT

Hannibal works quietly at his desk, scribbling in Will’s patient notebook. A creak from the balcony above him lifts his pen from the page.

Hannibal Lecter: "Hello, Abigail."

Abigail is standing on the second floor library.

Abigail Hobbs: "How did you know it was me?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Hospital called. You climbed over the wall. Where else were you to go? Home is no longer an option. Come down from there."

Abigail climbs down the ladder, taking Hannibal’s hand for balance.

Abigail Hobbs: "I don’t want to go to sleep."

Hannibal Lecter: "You can’t anticipate your dreams, can’t block them, can’t repress."

Abigail Hobbs: "I didn’t honor any part of him. So it’s just murder, isn’t it?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Most would argue self defense."

Abigail Hobbs: "Then why not tell the truth."

Hannibal Lecter: "Most would argue. There would still be those who would say you were taking after your father."

Abigail Hobbs: "Am I?"

Hannibal Lecter: "Like your father, you know the unreality of the people who die. You understand that they are not flesh, but light and air and color. Quick sounds quickly ended when you change them. You changed Nicholas Boyle like a burst balloon."

A wave of near-nausea washes over her, but she pushes it down.

Abigail Hobbs: "You said I gutted him. Like a deer."

Hannibal Lecter: "Nicholas Boyle is more important for the gutting, more important than the life he clamored after."

Abigail Hobbs: "You’re glad I killed him."

Hannibal Lecter: "What would be the alternative? That he killed you?"

Abigail Hobbs: "I don’t know if he was going to."

Hannibal Lecter: "No, you don’t."

Abigail Hobbs: "You’re the one who called the house. You talked to my dad before... What did you say to him?"

Hannibal Lecter: "A simple conversation, ascertaining if he was home for an interview."

Abigail gives him a look.

Hannibal Lecter: "Then why not tell the truth?"

Abigail Hobbs: "They think who called the house was a serial killer. Just like my dad."

Hannibal Lecter: "I’m nothing like your father. I made a mistake. Something easily misconstrued. Not unlike yourself. I’ll keep your secret."

Abigail Hobbs: "And I’ll keep yours."

There’s a finality to their agreement. A life long pact.

Hannibal Lecter: "Reassuring to recognize when the bolt of our fates slides home. No more climbing walls, Abigail."